

Order,  order,  order!  Milster  Malster  in  the  chair.  We've  heard  it 

( 

^'  sinse  sung  thousandtimes.  How  Burghley  shuck  the  rackushant 

Germanon.  For  Ehren^  boys,  gobrawl!      ^  ^^^T  J^ft^^r 

A  public  plouse.  C  itizen  soldiers.    ^  -«  ,  ^  ^ 

TAFF  (a  smaTt  hoy^  of  the  peat  freers^  thirty  two  eleven^  looking 
through  the  roof  towards  a  relevution  of  the  karmalife  order  privious 
^^v^    to  his  hoisting  of  an  emergency  umber olum  in  hyway  of paraguastical 
solation  to  the  rhyttel  in  his  hedd).  All  was  flashing  and  krashning 
Qj^"^^^  biurty  moriartsky  blutcherudd.'^  What  see,  buttywalch.'^  Tell  ever 

yr^^  so  often  .'^ 

BUTT  {mottledged  youthy  clergical  appealance^  who,  as  his  pied 
friary  is  supposing  to  motto  the  sorry  dejester  in  tifftaff  toffiness  or 
to  he  digarced  from  ever  and  a  daye  in  his  accounts^.  But  da.  But 
dada,  mwilshsuni.  Till  even  so  aften.  Sea  vaast  a  pool! 

TAFF  {porumptly  helping  himself  out  by  the  cesspull  with  a  yellup 
yurrupy  puts  up  his  furry  furied  hare).  Butly  bitly!  Humme  to  our 
mounthings.  Conscribe  him  tillusk,  unt,  in  his  jubalant  tubalence, 
the  groundsapper,  with  his  soilday  site  out  on  his  moulday  side 
^  in.  The  gubernier-gerenal  in  laut-lievtonant  of  Baltiskeeamore, 

~^ '  amaltheouse  for  leporty  hole!  Endues  paramilintary  langdwage. 

The  saillils  of  the  yellavs  nocadont  palignol  urdlesh.  Shelltoss 
and  welltass  and  telltuss  aghom!  Sling  Stranaslang,  how  Malo- 
razzias  spikes  her,  coining  a  speak  a  spake!  Not  the  Setanik  stuff 
that  slimed  soft  Siranouche!  The  good  old  gunshop  monowards 
for  manosymples.  Tincurs  tammit!  They  did  oak  hay  doe  fou 
Chang-li-meng  when  that  man  d'airain  was  big  top  tom  saw  tip 
side  bum  boss  pageantfiller.  Ajaculate!  All  lea  light!  Rassamble 
the  glowrings  of  Bruyant  the  Bref  when  the  Mollies  Makehal- 
pence  took  his  leg  for  his  thumb.  And  may  he  be  too  an  intrepida- 
tion  of  our  dreams  which  we  foregot  at  wiking  when  the  morn 
hath  razed  out  limpalove  and  the  bleakfrost  chilled  our  ravery! 
Pook.  Sing  ching  lew  mang!  Upgo,  bobbycop!  Lets  hear  in 
remember  the  braise  of.  Hold! 

BUTT  {drawling  forth  from  his  blousom  whereis  meditabound  of 
his  minkerstaryy  switches  on  his  gorsecopper  s  fling  weitoheito  long- 
thorny  fed  up  the  grain  oils  of  Aerin,  while  his  laugh  neighs  banck  as 

338 


tAat  flashermind' s  rays  and  his  Rpponease  longuewedge  wambles). 
Ullahbluh!  Sehyoh  narar,  pokehole  sann!  Manhead  very  dirty  by 
am  anoyato.  Like  old  Dolldy  Icon  when  he  cooked  up  his  iggs 
in  bicon.  He  gatovit  and  me  gotafit  and  Oalgoak's  Cheloven  gut 
a  fudden.  Povar  old  pitschobed!  Molodezrious  of  metchennacht 
belaburt  that  pentschmyaso  I  Bog  carsse  and  dam  neat,  sar,  gam 
cant!  Limbers  affront  of  him,  lumbers  behund.  While  the  bucks 
bite  his  dos  his  hart  bides  the  ros  till  the  bounds  of  his  bays  bell 
the  warning.  Sobaiter  sobarkar.  He  was  enmiyallupped.  Chro- 
mean  fastion.  With  all  his  cannoball  wappents.  In  his  raglanrock 
and  his  malakoiffed  b^ulbsbyg  and  his  varnashed  roscians  and  his 
cardigans  blousejagged  and  his  scarlett  manchokuffs  and  his  tree- 
coloured  camiflag  and  his  perikopendolous  gaelstorms.  Here 
weeks  hire  pulchers!  Obriania's  beromst!  From  Karrs  and 
Polikoff's,  the  men's  confessioners.  Seval  shimars  pleasant 
time  payings.  Mousoumeselles  buckwoulds  look.  Tenter  and 
likelings.  f  y  v 

TAFF  (all  Perssiasterssias  shookatnaratatattar  at  his  waggon- 
horchers^  his  bulgeglarying  star  gapers  ranledanlingly  full  of  eyes^  ^  j 
full  of  balls  y  full  of  holes^  full  of  buttons^  full  of stains  ^  full  of  medals  ^  ?   ? '  ^ 
full  of  blickblackblobs).  Grozarktic!  Toadlebens!  Some  garment-  / 
guy!  Insects  appalling,  low  hum  clang  sin!  A  cheap  decoy!  Too 
deep  destroy!  Say  mangraphique,  may  say  nay  por  daguerre!  \ 

BUTT  (if  that  he  hids  foregodden  has  nate  of  glo:^ery  farused  ameet 
theflorahs  of  thefpllest^  his  spent  fish's  livid  smile  giving  allasundery 
the  bumfit  of  the  doped).  Come  alleyou  jupes  of  Wymmingtown 
that  graze  the  calves  of  Man!  A  bear  raigning  in  his  heavenspawn 
consomation  robes.  Rent,  outraged,  yewleaved,  grained,  bal-  - 
looned,  hindergored  and  voluant!  Erminia's  capecloaked  hoo-  V 
doodman!  First  he  s  s  st  steppes.  Then  he  st  stoo  stoopt.  Lookt.  ' 

TAFF  {strick  struck  strangling  like  aleal  lusky  Lubliner  to  merum- 
her  by  the  cycl  of  the  cruise  who  strungled  Attahilloupa  with  what 
empoisoned  El  Monte  de  Zuma  and  failing  wilnaynilnay  that  he 
was  pallups  barn  in  the  minkst  of  the  Krumlin  hefodt  he  was  pop- 
soused  into  the  monkst  of  the  vatercan^  makes  the  holypolygon  of 
„<?/?f„l4lJJ-.^^^-y'^^/^^r,  a  little  farther,  a  little  soon^  a  lettera- 
339 


cettera^  oukraydoubray).  Scutterer  of  guld,  he  is  retourious  on 
every  roudery!  The  lyewdsky  so  so  sewn  of  a  fitchid!  With  his 
walshbrushup.  And  his  boney  bogey  braggs. 

BUTT  {after  his  tongues  in  his  cheeks^  with  pinkpoker  pointing 
out  in  rutene  to  impassible  abjects  beyond  the  mistomist  towards 
Lissnaluhy  such  as  the  Djublian  Alps  and  the  Hoofd  Ribeiro  as 
where  he  and  his  trulock  may  ever  make  a  game).  The  field  of 
karhags  and  that  bloasted  tree.  Forget  not  the  felled!  For  the 
lomondations  of  Oghrem!  Warful  doon*s  bothem.  Here  furry 
glunn.  Nye?  Their  feery  pass.  Tak!  With  guerillaman  aspear 
aspoor  to  prink  the  pranks  of  primkissies.  And  the  buddies  be- 
hide  in  the  byre.  Allahblah  I 

TAFF  (a  blackseer^  he  s troves  to  regulect  all  the  straggles  for  wife 
in  the  rut  of  the  past  through  the  widnows  in  effigies  keening  after  the 
blank  sheets  in  their  faminy  to  the  relix  of  old  decency  from  over 
draught).  Oh  day  of  rath!  Ah,  murther  of  mines!  Eh,  selo  moy! 
Uh,  Zulu  luy!  Bernesson  Mac  Mahahon  from  Osro  bearing  nose 
easger  for  sweeth  prolettas  on  his  swooth  prowl! 

BUTT  {back  to  his  peatrol  and paump:  swee  Gees  wee  rest:  no 
more  applehooley:  dodewodedook).  Bruinoboroff,  the  hooney- 
moonger,  and  the  grizzliest  manmichal  in  Meideveide!  Whose 
annal  livves  the  hoiest!  For  he  devoused  the  lelias  on  the  fined 
and  he  conforted  samp,  tramp  and  marchint  out  of  the  drumbume 
of  a  narse.  Guards,  serf  Finnland,  serve  we  all ! 

TAFF  {whatwidth  the  psychophannies  at  the  front  and  whetwadth 
the  psuckofumbers  beholden  the  fair ^  Ulcer tain^  between  his  bulchri- 
chudes  and  the  roshashanaral^  where  he  sees  Bishop  Ribboncake  plus 
his  pollex  priced  going  forth  on  his  visitations  of  mirrage  or  Miss 
Hori^onj  justso  all  our  fannacies  daintied  her^  on  the  curve  of  the 
camber^  unsheathing  a  showlaced  limbaloft  to  the  great  consternations). 
Divulge!  Hyededye,  kittyls,  and  howdeddoh,  pan!  Poshbott  and 
pulbuties.  See  that  we  soli  or  let  dargman  be  luna  as  strait  a  way 
as  your  ant's  folly  me  line  while  ye  post  is  goang  from  Piping 
Pubwirth  to  Haunted  Hillborough  on  his  Mujiksy's  Zaravence, 
the  Riss,  the  Ross,  the  sur  of  all  Russers,  as  my  farst  is  near  to 
hear  and  my  sackend  is  meet  to  sedon  while  my  whole's  a  peer's 

340 


i 


aureolies.  We  should  say  you  dones  the  polecad.  Bang  on  the 
booche,  gurg  in  the  gorge,  rap  on  the  roof  and  your  flup  is  unbu... 

BUTT  (at  the  signal  of  his  act  which  seems  to  sharpnel  his 
irmermals  menody^  playing  the  spool  of  the  little  brown  jog  round  the 
wheel  of  her  whang  goes  the  millner).  Buckily  buckily,  blodestained 
boyne!  Bimbambombumb.  His  snapper  was  shot  in  the  Rumjar  c/vvwv^A-<j^ 
Journaral.  Why  the  gigls  he  lubbed  beeyed  him. 

TAFF  (obliges  with  a  two  stopyogacoga  sumphoiyon  the  bones  for  ivory 
girl  and  ebony  boy),  The^balacleivka !  Trovatarovitch !  I  trumble! 

BUTT  (with  the  sickle  of  a  scygthe  but  the  humour  of  a  hummer  ^  0, 
howorodies  through  his  cholaroguled^  fumfing  to  a  fullfrength  with 
this  wallowing  olfact).  Mortar  martar  tartar  wartar!  May  his 
boules  grow  wider  so  his  skittles  gets  worse!  The  aged  monad  '■.o  '  .J 
making  a  venture  out  of  the  murder  of  investment.  I  seen  him 
acting  surgent  what  betwinks  the  scimitar  star  and  the  ashen 
moon.  By  their  lights  shalthow  throw  him!  Piff  paff  for  puffpufF 
and  my  pife  for  his  cgar!  The  mlachy  way  for  gambling. 

\Up  to  this  curkscraw  bind  an  admirable  verbivocovisual pre- 
sentment of  the  worldrenownced  Caerholme  Event  has  been  being 
given  by  The  Irish  Race  and  World.  The  huddled  and  aliven  stable- 
crashers  have  shared  fleetfooted  enthusiasm  with  the  paddocks 
dare  and  ditches  tare  while  the  mews  was  combing  ground,  Hippo- 
hopparray  helioscope  flashed  winsor  places  as  the  gates  might  see, 
Meusdeus!  That  was  (with  burning  briar)  Mr  Twomass  Noho- 
holan  for  their  common  contribe  satisfunction  in  the  purports  of 
amusedment  telling  the  Verily  Roverend  Father  Epiphanes 
shrines hriver  of  Saint  DhorougK s  (in  browne  bomler)  how 
(assuary  as  there  s  a  bonum  in  your  osstheology!)  Backlegs 
shirked  the  racing  kenneldar.  The  saintly  scholar  is  t's  roastering 
guffalawd  of  nupersaturals  holler  at  this  metanoic  excomologosis 
tells  oj  the  chestnut  s  (once  again^  Wittyngtom!)  absolutionally 
romptyhompty  successfulness.  A  lot  of  lasses  and  lads  without 
damas  or  dads^  but  fresh  and  blued  with  collecting  boxes.  One 
aught  spare  ones  trifle ts^  to  be  shut:  it  is  Coppingers  for  the 
children.  Slippery  Sam  hard  by  them^  physically  present  how- 

341 


somedever  morally  absent^  was  slooching  about  in  his  knavish 
diamonds  asking  GmaXy  Knox  and  the  Dmuggies  (a  pinnance  for 
your  toughts^  turffers/)  to  deck  the  ace  of  duds,  Tomtinker  Tim^ 
howbeity  his  unremitting  retainer^  {the  seers  are  the  seers  of 
Samael  but  the  heers  are  the  heers  of  Timoth)  is  in  Booker  s 
Gloom,  soalken  steady  in  his  sulken  tents.  Baldawl  the  curse, 
baledale  the  day!  And  the  frocks  of  shick  sheeples  in  their  shum- 
mering  insamples!  You  see:  a  chiefsmith,  semperal  scandal 
stinkmakers^  a  middinest  from  the  Casablanca  and^  of  course^ 
Mr  Fry.  Harass!  Pardon  the  inquisition^  causas  es  quostas?  It 
is  Da  Valorem* s  Dominical  Brayers.  Why  coif  that  weird  hood? 
Because  among  nosoever  circusdances  is  to  be  apprehended  the 
dustungwashed  poltronage  of  the  lost  Gabbarnaur-Jaggarnath. 
Pamjab!  Gross  Jumpiter^  whud  was  thud?  Luckluckluckluck- 
luckluckluck!  It  is  the  Thousand  to  One  Guinea-Gooseberry  s 
Lipperfull  Slipver  Cup.  Hold  hard,  ridesiddle  titelittle  Pitsy 
Riley!  Gurragrunch,  gurragrunch!  They  are  at  the  turn  of  the 
fourth  of  the  hurdles.  By  the  hross  of  Xristos^  Holophullopopu- 
lace  is  a  shote  of  excramation!  Bumchub!  Emancipator,  the 
Creman  hunter  {Major  Her  my n  C.  Entwhistle)  with  dramatic 
effect  reproducing  the  form  of  famous  sires  on  the  scene  of  the 
formers  triumphs^  is  showing  the  eagle's  way  to  Mr  JVhayte- 
haytes  three  buy  geldings  Homo  Made  Ink,  Bailey  Beacon 
and  Ratatuohy  while  Furstin  II  and  The  Other  Girl  {Mrs 
'Boss*  Waters^  Leavybrink)  too  early  spring  dabbles^  are  showing 
a  clean  pairofhids  to  Immensipater.  Sinkathinks  to  oppen  here! 
To  this  virgins  tuft^  on  this  golden  of  evens!  I  never  sought  of 
sinkathink.  Our  lorkmakor  he  is  proformly  annuysed.  He  is 
shinkly  thinkly  shaking  in  his  schayns.  Sat  will  be  off follteedee. 
This  ^ejj^reme  has  being  efferedyou  by  Bett  and  Tipp.  Tipp  and 
Bett,  our  swapstick  quackchancers^  in  From  Topphole  to  Bot- 
tom o/The  Irish  Race  and  World.] 

TAFF  {awary  that  the  first  sports  report  of  Loundin  Reginald 
has  now  been  after  thoughtfully  colliberated  by  a  saggind  spurts 
flash,  takes  the  dipperend  direction  and^  for  tasing  the  tiomor  of 

342 


y 


malaise  after  the  pognency  of  orangultoniay  orients  by  way  of  Sagit- 
tarius towards  Draco  on  the  Lour),  And  you  collier  carsst  on  him, 
the  corsar,  with  Boyle,  Burke  and  Campbell,  I'll  gogemble  on 
strangbones  tomb.  You  had  just  been  cerberating  a  camp  camp 
camp  to  Saint  Sepulchre's  march  through  the  armeemonds  re- 
treat with  the  boys  all  marshalled,  scattering  giant's  hail  over  the 
curseway,  fellowed  along  the  rout  by  the  stenchions  of  the 
corpse.  Tell  the  coldspell's  terroth!  If  you  please,  commeylad! 
Perfedes  Albionias!  Think  some  ingain  think,  as  Teakortairer 
sate  over  the  Galwegian  caftan  forewhen  Orops  and  Aasas  were 
chooldrengs  and  micramacrees !  A  forward  movement,  Miles  na 
Bogaleen,  and  despatch! 

BUTT  {slinking  his  coatsleeves  surdout  over  his  squad  mutton 
shoulder  so  as  to  loop  more  life  the  jauntlyman  as  he  scents  the 
^^SS^^B^^  y^P  behound  their  whole  scoopchinas  desperate  noy's 
totalage  and  explaining  aposteriorly  how  awstooloo  was  valde- 
somhre  helowes  hero  and  he  was  in  a  greak  esthate  phophiar  an 
erixtion  on  the  soseptuple  side  of  him  made  spoil  apriori  his  popo- 
porportiums).  Yass,  zotnyzor,  I  don't  think  I  did  not,  pojr.  Never 
you  brother  me  for  I  scout  it,  think  you !  Ichts  nichts  on  nichts ! 
Creates  Schtschuptar !  Me  fol  the  rawlawdy  in  the  schpirrt  of  a 
schkrepz.  Of  all  the  quirasses  and  all  the  qwehrmin  in  the  tra- 
gedoes  of  those  antiants  their  grandoper,  that  soun  of  a  gun- 
nong,  with  his  sabaothsopolettes,  smooking  his  scandleloose  at 
botthends  of  him!  Foinn  duhans!  I  grandthinked  after  his  obras 
after  another  time  about  the  itch  in  his  egondoom  he  was  legging 
boldylugged  from  some  pulversporochs  and  lyoking  for  a  stool- 
eazy  for  to  nemesisplotsch  allafranka  and  for  to  salubrate  himself 
with  an  ultradungs  heavenly  mass  at  his  base  by  a  suprime  pomp- 
ship  chorams  the  perished  popes,  the  reverend  and  allaverred 
cromlecks,  and  when  I  heard  his  lewdbrogue  reciping  his  cheap 
cheateary  gospeds  to  sintry  and  santry  and  sentry  and  suntry  I 
thought  he  was  only  haftara  having  afterhis  brokeforths  but  be 
the  homely  Churopodvas  I  no  sooner  seen  aghist  of  his  frighte- 
ousness  then  I  was  bibbering  with  vear  a  few  versets  off  fooling  for 
fjorg  for  my  fifth  foot.  Of  manifest  'tis  obedience  and  the.  Flute! 

343 


TAFF  {though  the  unglucksarsoon  is  giming  for  to  git  him^  jotning 
in,  hoghly  ligious,  hapagodlap,  like  a  soldierry  sap,  with  a  pique  at 
his  cue  and  a  tyr  in  his  eye  and  a  bond  of  his  back  and  a  croak  in  his 
cry  as  did  jolly  well  harm  lean  o'er  him)  Is  not  athug  who  would. 
Weepon,  weeponder,  song  of  sorrowmon!  Which  goatheye 
and  sheepskeer  they  damnty  well  know.  Papaist!  Gambanman! 
Take  the  cawraidd's  blow!  Yia!  Your  partridge's  last! 

BUTT  {giving  his  scimmianised  twinge  in  acknuckledownedgment 
of  this  cumulikick,  strafe  from  the  firetrench,  studenly  drobs  led,  sa- 
toniseels  ouchyotchy,  he  changecors  induniforms  as  he  is  lefting  the 
gat  out  of  the  big:  his  face  glows  green,  his  hair  greys  white,  his 
hleyes  bcome  broon  to  suite  his  cultic  twalette).  But  when  I  seeing 
him  in  his  oneship  fetch  along  within  hail  that  tourrible  tall 
with  his  nitshnykopfgoknob  and  attempting  like  a  brandylogged 
rudeman  cathargic,  lugging  up  and  laiding  down  his  livepelts 
so  cruschinly  like  Mebbuck  at  Messar  and  expousing  his  old 
skinful  self  tailtottom  by  manurevring  in  open  ordure  to  renew- 
murature  with  the  cowruads  in  their  airish  pleasantry  I  thanked 
he  was  recovering  breadth  from  some  herdsquatters  beyond  the 
carcasses  and  I  couldn't  erver  nerver  to  tell  a  Hard  story  not  of  I 
knew  the  prize  if  from  lead  or  alimoney.  But  when  I  got  inoccu- 
pation of  a  full  new  of  his  old  basemiddelism,  in  ackshan,  pagne 
pogne,  by  the  veereyed  lights  of  the  stormtrooping  clouds  and 
in  the  sheenfiare  of  the  batdeaxes  of  the  heroim  and  mid  die 
shieldfails  awail  of  the  bitteraccents  of  the  sorafim  and  caught  the 
pfierce  tsmell  of  his  aurals,  orankastank,  a  suphead  setrapped, 
like  Peder  the  Greste,  altipaltar,  my  bill  it  forsooks  allegiance 
(gut  bull  it!)  and,  no  lie  is  this,  I  was  babbeing  and  yetaghain 
bubbering,  bibbelboy,  me  marrues  me  shkewers  me  gnaas  me 
fiet,  tob  tob  tob  beat  it,  solongopatom.  Clummensy  if  ever  mis- 
used, must  used  you's  now!  But,  meac  Coolp,  Arram  of  Eirze- 
rum,  as  I  love  our  Deer  Dirouchy,  I  confesses  withould  pride- 
jealice  when  I  looked  upon  the  Saur  of  all  the  Haurousians  with 
die  weight  of  his  arge  fullin  upon  him  from  the  travaillings  of 
his  tommuck  and  rueckenased  the  fates  of  a  bosser  there  was  fear 
on  me  the  sons  of  Nuad  for  him  and  it  was  heavy  he  was  for  me 

344 


II 


I 


then  the  way  I  immingled  my  Irmenial  hairmaierians  ammon- 
gled  his  Gospolis  fomiliours  till,  achaura  moucreas,  I  adn't  the 
arts  to. 

TAFF  (as  a  marrcr  off  act,  prepensing  how  such  waldmanns  from 
Burnias  seduced  country  clowns^  he  is  preposing  harangaparang 
after  going  knowing  what  he  is  doing  after  to  see  him  pluggy  well 
moidered  as  a  murder  effect^  you  bet  your  hlowie  knife^  before  he 
doie  soie^  sopprused  though  he  is)  Grot  Zot!  You  hidn't  the  hurts? 
Vott  Fonn ! 

BUTT  {hearing  somrother  sudly  give  twor three  peevish  sniff  snuff 
snoores  like  govalise  falseleep  he  waitawhishts  to  see  might  he  stirs 
and  then  goes  on  kuldrum  like  without  asking  for  pepeace  or  anysing 
a  soul).  Merzmard!  I  met  with  whom  it  was  too  late.  My  fate!  O 
hate!  Fairwail!  Fearwealing  of  the  groan!  And  think  of  that 
when  you  smugs  to  bagot. 

TAFF  (who  meanwhilome  at  yarns  length  so  as  to  put  a  nodje 
in  the  poestcher^  by  wile  of  stoccan  his  hand  and  of  rooma  makin 
her  getting  umptyums  gatherumed  off  the  skattert^  had  been  lavish- 
ing^ lagan  on  lighthouse^  words  of  silent  power^  susu  glouglou  biri- 
biri  gongoSj  upon  the  repleted  speechsalver  ^s  innkeeping  right  which^ 
thanks  giveme  and  naperied  norms  nonobstaclant,  there  can  be  little 
doubt y  have  resulted  in  a  momstchance  ministring  of  another  guid- 
ness,  my  good^  to  see)  Bompromifazzio !  Shumpum  for  Pa-li-di 
and  oukosouso  for  the  nipper  dandy!  Trink  off  this  scup  and  be 
bladdy  orafferteed !  To  bug  at? 

BUTT  (he  whipedoff's  his  chimbley  phot^  as  lips  lovecurling  to  the 
tongueopener ^  he  takecups  the  communion  of  sense  at  the  hands  of 
the  foregiver  of  trosstpassers  and  thereinofter  centelinnates  that 
potifex  miximhost  with  haruspical  hospedariaty  proferring  into  his 
pauses  somewhot  salt  bacon),  Theres  scares  knud  in  this  gnarld 
warld  a  fully  so  svend  as  dilates  for  the  improvement  of  our 
foerses  of  nature  by  your  very  ample  solvent  of  referacting  upon 
me  like  is  boesen  fiennd. 

\The  other  foregotthened  abbosed  in  the  Mullingaria  are 
during  this  swishingsight  teilweisioned.  How  the  fictionable  world 

345 


in  Fruiian  Creamtartery  is  loading  off  heavy  furses  and  affubling 
themselves  with  muc kins  tushes.  The  neatschknee  Novgolosh.  How 
the  spinach  ruddocks  are  being  tatoovatted  up  for  the  second 
comings  of  antigreenst.  Hehencros  for  Aromal  Peace.  How 
Alibey  Ibrahim  wisheths  Bella  Suora  to  a  holy  cryptmahs  while 
the  Arumbian  Knives  Riders  axecutes  devilances  round  the 
jehumispheure.  Learn  the  Nunsturk,  How  Old  Vales  beys  is 
making  reholutions  for  the  cunning  New  Yirls,  never  elding^ 
still  begiddingj  never  to  mate  to  lend^  never  to  ate  selleries  and 
never  to  add  soulleries  and  never  to  ant  sulleries  and  never  to  aid 
sillcries  with  sucharow  with  sotchyouroff  as  Burkeleys  Show's 
a  ructiongetherall.  Phone  for  Phineal  toomellow  aftermorn  and 
your  phumeraVs  a  roselixion.] 

TAFF  (now  as  he  has  been  past  the  buckthurnstock  from  Peadhar 
Piper  of  Colliguchuna^  whiles  they  all  are  bealting  pots  to  dubrin 
din  for  old  daddam  dombstom  to  tomb  and  wamb  humbs  lumbs 
agamb^  glimpse  agam^  glance  agen^  rise  up  road  and  hive  up  hill^ 
and  find  your  pollyvoulley  foncey  pitchin  ingles  in  the  parler).  Since 
you  are  on  for  versingrhetorish  say  your  piece!  How  Buccleuch 
shocked  the  rosing  girnirilles.  A  ballet  of  Gasty  Power.  A  hov 
and  az  ov  and  off  like  a  gow!  And  don't  live  out  the  sad  of  tearfs, 
piddyawhick!  Not  offgott  affsang  is  you,  buthbach?  Ath  yet- 
heredayth  noth  endeth,  hay?  Vaersegood!  Buckle  to!  Sayyessik, 
Ballygarry.  The  fourscore  soculums  are  watchyoumaycodding 
to  cooll  the  skoopgoods  blooff.  Harkabuddy,  feign!  Tliingman 
placeyear  howed  wholst  somwom  shimwhir  tinkledinkledelled. 
Shinfine  deed  in  the  myrtle  of  the  bog  tway  fainmain  stod  op  to 
slog,  free  bond  men  lay  lurkin  on.  Tuan  about  whattinghim! 
Fore  sneezturmdrappen !  'Twill  be  a  rpnice  pscliange,  arrah,  sir.'^ 
Can  you  come  it,  budd? 

BUTT  (who  in  the  cushlows  of  his  goods  for  seeking  hoarth^  ever 
fondlinger  of  his  pimple  spurk^  is  a  niallist  of  the  ninth  homestages^ 
the  babybell  in  his  baggutstract  upper  going  off  allatwanst,  begad, 
lest  he  should  challenge  himself  beygoad,  till  angush).  Horrasure, 
toff!  As  said  as  would.  It  was  Colporal  Phailinx  first.  Hittit  was 

346 


I 


I 


i 


of  another  time,  a  white  horsday  where  the  midril  met  the  bulg, 
sbogom,  roughnow  along  about  the  first  equinarx  in  the  cholon- 
der,  on  the  plain  of  Khorason  as  thou  goest  from  the  mount  of 
Bekel,  Steep  Nemorn,  elve  hundred  and  therety  and  to  years 
how  the  krow  flees  end  in  deed,  after  a  power  of  skimiskes, 
blodidens  and  godinats  of  them,  when  we  sight  the  beasts,  (heg- 
heg  whatlk  of  wraimy  wetter!),  moist  moonful  date  man  aver 
held  dimsdzey  death  with,  and  higheye  was  in  the  Reilly  Oirish 
Krzerszonese  Milesia  asundurst  Sirdarthar  Woolwichleagues, 
good  tomkeys  years  somewhile  in  Crimealian  wall  samewhere 
in  Ayerland,  during  me  weeping  stillstumms  over  the  freshprosts 
of  Eastchept  and  the  dangling  garters  of  Marrowbone  and  daring 
my  wapping  stiltstunts  on  Bostion  Moss,  old  stile  and  new  style 
and  heave  a  lep  onwards.  And  winn  again,  blaguadargoos,  or 
lues  the  day,  plays  goat,  the  banshee  pealer,  if  moskats  knows 
whoss  whizz,  the  great  day  and  the  druidful  day  come  San 
Patrisky  and  the  grand  day,  the  excellent  fine  splendorous  long 
agreeable  toastworthy  cylindrical  day,  go  Sixt  of  the  Ninth,  the 
heptahundread  annam  dammias  that  Hajizfijjiz  ells  me  is  and 
will  and  was  be  till  the  timelag  is  in  it  that's  told  in  the  Bok  of 
Alam  to  columnkill  all  the  prefacies  of  Erin  gone  brugk.  But 
Icantenue.  And  incommixtion.  We  was  lowsome  like  till  we'd 
took  out  after  the  dead  beats.  So  I  begin  to  study  and  I  soon 
show  them  day's  reasons  how  to  give  the  cold  shake  to  they 
blighty  perishers  and  lay  one  over  the  beats.  All  feller  he  look 
he  call  all  feller  come  longa  villa  finish.  Toumbalo,  how  was 
I  acclapadad!  From  them  banjopeddlars  on  the  raid.  Gidding 
up  me  anti  vanillas  and  getting  off  the  stissas  me  aunties. 
Boxerising  and  coxerusing.  And  swiping  a  johnny  dann 
sweept  for  to  exercitise  myself  neverwithstanding  the  topkats 
and  his  roaming  cartridges,  orussheying  and  patronning,  out 
all  over  Crummwiliam  wall.  Be  the  why  it  was  me  who  haw 
haw. 

TAFF  {all  for  letting  his  tinder  and  lighting  be  put  to  beheiss  in 
the  feuer  and^  while  durblinly  obasiant  to  the  felicias  of  the  skivis, 
still  smolking  his  fulvurite  turfkish  in  the  rooking  pressance  of 

347 


laddios),  Yaa  hoo  how  how,  col?  Whom  battles  joined  no  bottles 
sever!  Worn't  you  aid  a  comp? 

BUTT  (in  his  difficoltous  tresdobremient^  he  feels  a  bitvalike  a 
baddlefall  of  staot  but  falls  a  batforlake  a  borrlefull  of  bare).  And 
me  awlphul  omegrims!  Between  me  rassociations  in  the  postlea- 
deny  past  and  me  disconnections  with  aplompervious  futules 
I've  a  boodle  full  of  maimeries  in  me  buzzim  and  medears  runs 
sloze,  bleime,  as  I  now  with  platoonic  leave  recoil  in  (how  the 
thickens  they  come  back  to  one  to  rust!)  me  misenary  post  for 
all  them  old  boyars  that's  now  boomaringing  in  waulholler,  me 
alma  marthyrs.  I  dring  to  them,  bycorn  spirits  fuselaiding,  and 
you  cullies  adjutant,  even  where  its  contentsed  wody,  with 
absents  wehrmuth.  Junglemen  in  agleement,  I  give  thee  our 
greatly  swooren,  Theoccupant  that  Rueandredful,  the  thrown- 
fullvner  and  all  our  royal  devouts  with  the  arrest  of  the  whole 
inhibitance  of  Neuilands !  One  brief  mouth.  And  a  velligoolap- 
now !  Meould  attashees  the  currgans,  (if  they  could  get  a  kick  at 
this  time  for  all  that's  hapenced  to  us!)  Cedric  said  Gormleyson 
and  Danno  O'Dunnochoo  and  Conno  O'Cannochar  it  is  this 
were  their  names  for  we  were  all  under  that  manner  barracksers 
on  Kong  Gores  Wood  together,  thurkmen  three,  with  those 
khakireinettes,  our  miladies  in  their  toileries,  the  twum  plum- 
yumnietcies,  Vjeras  Vjenaskayas,  of  old  Djadja  Uncken  who 
was  a  great  mark  for  jinking  and  junking,  up  the  palposes  of 
womth  and  wamth,  we  war,  and  the  charme  of  their  lyse  brocade. 
For  lispias  harth  a  burm  in  eye  but  whem  it  bames  fire  norone 
screeneth.  Hulp,  hulp,  huzzars!  Raise  ras  tryracy!  Freetime's 
free!  Up  Lancesters!  Anathem! 

TAFF  (who  still  senses  that  heavinscent  houroines  that  enter- 
trained  him  who  they  were  sinuorivals  from  the  sunny  Espionia  but 
plied  wopsy  with  his  wallets  in  thatthack  of  the  bustle  Bakerloo^ 
(11.32),  passing  the  uninational  truthbosh  in  smoothing  irony  over 
the  multinotcher ailed  infructuosities  of  his  grinner  set).  The  rib,  ^ 
the  rib,  die  quean  of  oldbyrdes,  Sinya  Sonyavitches!  Your 
Rhoda  Cockardes  that  are  raday  to  embrace  our  ruddy  inflamtry 
world!  In  their  ohosililesvienne  biribarbebeway.  Till  they've 

348 


kinks  in  their  tringers  and  boils  on  their  taws.  Whor  dor  the  pene 
lie,  Mer  Pencho?  1st  dramhead  countmortial  or  gonorrhal  stab? 
Mind  your  pughs  and  keaoghs,  if  you  piggots,  marsh!  Do  the 
nut,  dingbut!  Be  a  dag!  For  zahur  and  zimmerminnes!  Sing  in 
the  chorias  to  the  ethur: 

[In  the  heliotropical  noughttime  following  a  fade  of  trans- 
formed Tuff  and,  pending  its  viseversion,  a  metenergic  reglow 
of  beaming  Batt,  the  hairdhoard  bombardment  screen,  if  taste- 
fully taut  guranium  satin,  tends  to  teleframe  and  step  up  to 
the  charge  of  a  light  barricade.  Down  the  photoslope  in  syncopanc 
pulses,  with  the  bitts  bugtwug  their  teffs,  the  missledhropes, 
glitter aglatteraglutt,  borne  by  their  carnier  waive.  Spraygun 
rakes  and  splits  them  from  a  double  focus:  grenadite,  damny- 
mite,  alextronite,  nichilite:  and  the  scanning  firespot  of  the 
sgunners  traverses  the  rutilanced  illustred  sunksundered  lines. 
Shlosshf  A  gaspel  truce  leaks  out  over  the  caeseine  coatings. 
Amid  a  fluorescence  of  spectracular  mephiticism  there  caoculates 
through  the  inconoscope  stealdily  a  still,  the  figure  of  a  fellow- 
chap  in  the  wohly  ghast,  Popey  O' Donos hough,  the  jesuneral 
of  the  russuates.  The  idolon  exhibisces  the  seals  of  his  orders: 
the  starre  of  the  Son  of  Heaven,  the  girtel  of  I-^odella  the  Calot- 
tica,  the  cross  of  Michelides  Apaleogos,  the  latchet  of  Jan  of 
Nepomuk,  the  puffpuff  and  pompom  of  Powther  and  Pall,  the 
great  belt,  hand  and  bucklings  of  the  Martyrology  of  Gorman. 
It  is  for  the  castomercies  mudwake  surveice.  The  victar.  Pleace 
to  notnoys  speech  above  your  dreadths,  please  to  doughboys.  Hll, 
smthngs  gnwrng  wthth  sprsnwtch!  He  blanks  his  oggles  because 
he  confesses  to  all  his  tellavicious  nieces.  He  blocks  his  nosoes  be- 
cause that  he  confesses  to  everywheres  he  was  always  putting  up  his 
latest  faengers.  He  wollops  his  mouther  with  a  sword  of  tusk  in  as 
because  that  he  confesses  how  opten  he  used  be  obening  her  howonton 
he  used  be  under ing  her.  He  boundles  alltogotter  his  manucupes 
with  his  pedarrests  in  asmuch  as  because  that  he  confesses  before 
all  his  handcomplishies  and  behind  all  his  comfoderacies.  And 
Qiereis  cant  came  back  saying  he  codant  steal  no  lunger,  yessis, 

349 


ca^^  corm  buck  beqitzs  he  caudant  stall  awake)  he  touched  upon 
this  tree  of  livings  in  the  middenst  of  the  garerden  for  inasmuch 
as  because  that  he  confessed  to  it  on  Hillel  and  down  Dalem  and 
in  the  places  which  the  lepers  inhabit  in  the  place  of  the  stones 
and  in  pontofert  jusfuggading  amoret  now  he  come  to  think  of  it 
jolly  well  ruttengenerously  olyovyover  the  ole  blucky  shop.  Pugger 
old  Pumpey  0*  Dungaschifff  There  will  be  a  hen  collection  of  him 
after  avensung  on  the  field  of  Hanar.  Dumble  down^  looties  and 
gengstermen!  Dtin^  dtin^  dtin^  dtin/] 

BUTT  (with  a  gisture  expansive  of  Mr  Lhugewhite  Cadderpollard 
with  sunflawered  beautonhole  pulled  up  point  blanck  by  mailbag 
mundaynism  at  Oldbally  Court  though  the  hissindensity  buck  far 
of  his  melovelance  tells  how  when  he  was  fast  marking  his  first 
lord  for  cremation  the  whyfe  of  his  bothem  was  the  very  lad's  thing 
to  elter  his  mehind).  Prostatates,  pujealousties!  Dovolnoisers, 
prayshyous!  Defense  in  every  circumstancias  of  deboutcheries 
no  the  chaste  daffs !  Pack  pickets,  pioghs  and  kughs  to  be  palsey- 
putred !  Be  at  the  peme,  prease,  of  not  forgetting  or  mere  betoken 
yourself  to  hother  prace!  Correct  me,  pleatze  commando,  for 
cossakes  but  I  abjure  of  it.  No  more  basquibezigues  for  this  pole 
aprican!  With  askormiles'  eskermillas.  I  had  my  billyfell  of 
duckish  delights  the  whole  pukny  time  on  rawmeots  and  juliannes 
with  their  lambstoels  in  my  kiddeneys  and  my  ramsbutter  in 
their  sassenacher  ribs,  knee  her,  do  her  and  trey  her,  when 
th'osirian  cumb  dumb  like  the  whalf  on  the  fiord  and  we  prey- 
ing players  and  pinching  peacesmokes,  troupkers  tomiatskyns 
all,  for  Father  Petrie  Spence  of  Parishmoslattary  to  go  and  leave 
us  and  the  crimsend  daun  to  shellalite  on  the  darkumen  (scene 
as  signed,  Slobabogue),  feeding  and  sleeping  on  the  huguenottes 
(the  snuggest  spalniel's  where  the  lieon's  tame!)  and  raiding 
revolations  over  the  allbegeneses  (sand  us  and  saint  us  and 
sound  as  agun!).  Yet  still  in  all,  spit  for  spat,  like  we  chantied  on 
Sunda  schoon,  every  warson  wearrier  kaddies  a  komnate  in 
his  schnapsack  and  unlist  I  am  getting  foegutfulls  of  the  rugi- 
ments  of  savaliged  wildfire  I  was  gamefellow  willmate  and  send 

350 


1 


ll 


r 


I 


I 


us  victorias  with  nowells  and  brownings,  dumm,  sneak  and 
curry,  and  all  the  fun  I  had  in  that  fanagan's  week.  A  strange 
man  wearing  abarrel.  And  here's  a  gift  of  meggs  and  teggs.  And 
as  I  live  by  chipping  nortons.  And  'tis  iron  fits  the  farmer,  ay. 
Arcdesedo!  Renborumba!  Then  were  the  hellscyown  days  for 
our  fellows,  the  loyal  leibsters,  and  we  was  the  redugout  raw- 
recruitioners,  praddies  three  and  prettish  too,  a  wheeze  we  has 
in  our  waynward  islands,  wee  engrish,  one  long  blue  streak, 
jisty  and  pithy  af  durck  rosolun,  with  hand  to  hand  as  Homard 
Kayenne  was  always  jiggilyjugging  about  in  his  wendowed 
courage  when  our  woos  with  the  wenches  went  wined  for  a  song, 
