see  preseeding  chaps. 

^  O  boyjones  and  hairyoddities !  Only  noane  told  missus  of  her  massas 
behaving  she  would  laugh  that  flat  that  after  that  she  had  sanked  down  on  her 
fat  arks  they  would  shaik  all  to  sheeks. 

®  Traduced  into  jinglish  janglage  for  the  nusances  of  dolphins  bom. 


275 


Some  is  out  for 
twoheaded  dul- 
carnons  but  more 
pulfers  turnips. 

Omnitudes  in  a 
hnutshedelL 


For  all  us  kids 
under  his  aegis. 


Saving  the  public 
his  health. 


Superlative  abso- 
lute of  Porter- 
stown. 


other's  weariness  waiting  to  beadroll  his  own 
properer  mistakes,  the  backslapping  glad- 
hander,^  free  of  his  florid  future  and  the  other 
singing  likeness,  dirging  a  past  of  bloody  altars, 
gale  with  a  blost  to  him,  dove  without  gall. 
And  she,  of  the  jilldaw's  nest^  who  tears  up 
lettereens  she  never  apposed  a  pen  upon.^  Yet 
sung  of  love  and  the  monster  man.  What's 
Hiccupper  to  hem  or  her  to  Hagaba?  Ough, 
ough,  brieve  kindli!* 

Dogs'  vespers  are  anending.  Vespertilia- 
bitur.  Goteshoppard  quits  his  gabhard  cloke 
to  sate  with  Becchus.  Zumbock!  Achevre! 
Yet  wind  will  be  ere  fadervor^  and  the  hour  of 
fruminy  and  bergoo  bell  if  Nippon  have  pearls 
or  opals  Eldorado,  the  daindy  dish,  the  leaking 
out!  Gipoo,  good  oil!  For  (hushmagandy!) 
long  'tis  till  gets  bright  that  all  cocks  waken 
and  birds  Diana^  with  dawnsong  hail.  Aught 
darks  flou  a  duskness.  Bats  that?  There  peepee- 
strilling.  At  Brannan's  on  the  moor.  At  Tam 
Fanagan's  weak  yat  his  still's  going  Strang. 
And  still  here  is  noctules  and  can  tell  things 
acommon  on  by  that  fluffy  feeling.  Larges 
loomy  wheelhouse  to  bodgbox*^  lumber  up 
with  hoodie  hearsemen  carrawain  we  keep 
is   peace    who   follow    his   law,  Sunday 


THE  MON- 
GREL UNDER 
THE  DUNG- 
MOUND. 
SIGNIFI- 
CANCE OF 
THE INFRA- 
LIMINAL  IN- 
TELLIGENCE. 
OFFRANDES. 


^  He  gives  me  pulpititions  with  his  Castlecowards  never  in  these  twowsers 
and  ever  in  those  twawsers  and  then  babeteasing  us  out  of  our  hoydenname. 

2  My  goldfashioned  bother  near  drave  me  roven  mad  and  I  dyeing  to 
keep  my  linefree  face  like  readymaid  maryangs  for  jollycomes  smashing 
Holmes. 

^  What  I  would  like  is  a  jade  louistone  to  go  with  the  moon's  increscent. 

*  Parley  vows  the  Askinwhose?  I  do,  Ida.  And  how  to  call  the  catde  black. 
Moopetsi  meepotsi. 

^  I  was  so  snug  off  in  my  apholster's  creedle  but  at  long  leash  I'll  stretch 
more  capritious  in  his  dapplepied  bed. 

•  Pipette.  I  can  almost  feed  their  sweemess  at  my  lisplips. 
'  A  liss  in  hunterland. 

276 


I 

I 

t 


Why  so  mucky 
pick  bridges 
pan  our  Flumi- 
\ian  road, 

^.C.  Helmut's  in 
he  Cottonwood, 
Istnin, 

The  throne  is  an 
mhrella  strande 
nd  a  sceptre  s  a 
tick, 

'ady  jewel y  our 
'aktar  deer, 

rautamed  bud- 
\ers  deossiphys- 
ig  our  Theas, 


y  lineal  in  pon- 
is  overthepoise. 


King.i  His  sevencoloured's  soot  (Ochone! 
Ochonal!)^  and  his  imponence  one  heap  lump- 
block  (Mogoul!).  And  rivers  burst  out  like 
weeming  racesround  joy  drinks  for  the  fewnral- 
ly,^  where  every  feaster's  a  Foster's  other,  fian- 
nians  all.*  The  wellingbreast,  he  willing  giant, 
the  mountain  mourning  his  duggedy  dew.  To 
obedient  of  civicity  in  urbanious  at  felicity 
what'U  yet  meek  Mike^  our  diputy  mimber  when 
he's  head  on  poll  and  Peter's  burgess  and  Miss 
Mishy  Mushy  is  tiptupt  by  Toft  Taft.  Boblesse 
gobleege.  For  as  Anna  was  at  the  beginning 
lives  yet  and  will  return  after  great  deap  sleap 
rerising  and  a  white  night  high  with  a  cows  of 
Drommhiem  as  shower  as  there's  a  wet  en- 
clouded  in  Westwicklow  or  a  little  black  rose  a 
truant  in  a  thorntree.  We  drames  our  dreams 
tell  Bappy  returns.  And  Sein  annews.  We  will 
not  say  it  shall  not  be,  this  passing  of  order  and 
order's  coming,  but  in  the  herbest  country  and 
in  the  country  around  Blath  as  in  that  city  self 
of  legionds  they  look  for  its  being  ever  yet.  So 
shuttle  the  pipers  done.^  Eric  aboy!^  And  it's 
time  that  all  paid  tribute  to  this  massive  mor- 
tiality,  the  pink  of  punk  perfection  as  photo- 
graphy in  mud.  Some  may  seek  to  dodge  the 


^  I  wonder  if  I  put  the  old  buzzerd  one  night  to  suckle  in  Millickmaam's 
honey  like  they  use  to  emballem  some  of  the  special  popes  with  a  book  in  his 
hand  and  his  mouth  open. 

^  And  a  ripping  rude  rape  in  his  lucreasious  togery. 

^  Will  ye  nought  would  wet  your  weapons,  warriors  bard? 

*  Roe,  Williams,  Bewey,  Greene,  Gorham,  McEndicoth  and  Vyler,  the 
lays  of  ancient  homes. 

^  The  stanidsglass  effect,  you  could  sugerly  swear  buttermilt  would  not 
melt  down  his  dripping  ducks. 

^  Thickathigh  and  Thinathews  with  sant  their  dam. 

'  Oh,  could  we  do  with  this  waddled  of  ours  like  that  redbanked  profanian 
with  his  bakset  of  yosters. 

277 


Pitchcap  and 
triangle^  noose 
and  tinctunc. 


Uncle  Flahbius 
Muximus  to 
Niecia  Flappia 
Minnimiss,  As 
this  is.  And  as 
this  this  is. 

Dear  Brotus, 
land  me  arrears. 


Rockahyy  bahel^ 
flatten  a  wall. 

How  he  broke  the 
good  news  to 
Gent, 


gobbet  for  its  quantity  of  quality  but  who 
wants  to  cheat  the  choker's  got  to  learn  to 
chew  the  cud.  Allwhichhole  scrubs  on  scroll 
circuminiuminluminatedhave  encuoniams  here 
and  improperies  there.^  With  a  pansy  for  the 
pussy  in  the  corner.^ 

Bewise  of  Fanciulla's  heart,  the  heart  of 
Fanciulla!  Even  the  recollection  of  willow 
fronds  is  a  spellbinder  that  lets  to  hear.^  The 
rushes  by  the  grey  nuns'  pond:  ah  eh  oh  let 
me  sigh  too.  Coalmansbell:  behoves  you 
handmake  of  the  load.  Jenny  Wren:  pick,  peck. 
Johnny  Post:  pack,  puck.*  All  the  world's  in 
want  and  is  writing  a  letters.^  A  letters  from  a 
person  to  a  place  about  a  thing.  And  all  the 
world's  on  wish  to  be  carrying  a  letters.  A  let- 
ters to  a  king  about  a  treasure  from  a  cat.* 
When  men  want  to  write  a  letters.  Ten  men, 
ton  men,  pen  men,  pun  men,  wont  to  rise  a 
ladder.  And  den  men,  dun  men,  fen  men,  fun 
men,  hen  men,  hun  men  wend  to  raze  a  leader. 
Is  then  any  lettersday  from  many  peoples, 
Daganasanavitch?  Empire,  your  outermost.' 
A  posy  cord.  Piece. 

We  have  wounded  our  way  on  foe  tris 
prince  till  that  force  in  the  gill  is  faint  afarred 


INCIPIT  IN- 
TERMISSIO. 


MAJOR  AND 
MINOR 


^  Gosem  pher,  gezumpher,  greeze  a  jarry  grim  felon!  Good  bloke  him! 

^  And  if  they  was  setting  on  your  stool  as  hard  as  my  was  she  could  beth 
her  bothom  dolours  he'd  have  a  culious  impressiom  on  the  diminitive  that 
chafes  our  ends. 

^  When  Tarn  Enastella  and  am  taken  for  Essastessa  I'll  do  that  droop  on  the 
pohlmann's  piano. 

*  Heavenly  twinges,  if  it's  one  of  his  I'll  fearly  feint  as  swoon  as  he  enter- 
rooms. 

^  To  be  slipped  on,  to  be  slept  by,  to  be  conned  to,  to  be  kept  up.  And  when 
you're  done  push  the  chain. 
®  With  her  modesties  office. 

'  Strutting  as  proud  as  a  great  turquin  weggin  that  cuckhold  on  his  Eddems 
and  Clay's  hat. 

278 


and  the  face  in  the  treebark  feigns  afear.  This 
is  rainstones  ringing.  Strangely  cuh  for  this 
ceasing  of  the  yore.  But  Erigureen  is  ever. 
Pot  price  pon  patrilinear  plop,  if  the  osseletion 
of  the  onkring  gives  omen  nome.'^  Since  alls 
war  that  end  war  let  sports  be  leisure  and 
bring  and  buy  fair.  Ah  ah  athclete,  blest  your 
bally  bathfeet!  Towntoquest,  fortorest,  the 
hour  that  hies  is  hurley.  A  halt  for  hearsake.^ 

^  Come,  smooth  of  my  slate,  to  the  beat  of  my  blosh!  With  all  these  gelded 
ewes  jilting  about  and  the  thrills  and  ills  of  laylock  blossoms  three's  so  much 
more  plants  than  chants  for  cecilies  that  I  was  thinking  fairly  killing  times  of 
putting  an  end  to  myself  and  my  malody,  when  I  remembered  all  your  pupil- 
teacher's  erringnesses  in  perfection  class.  You  sh'undn't  write  you  can't  if  you 
w'udn't  pass  for  undevelopmented.  This  is  the  propper  way  to  say  that,  Sr.  If 
it's  me  chews  to  swallow  all  you  saidn't  you  can  eat  my  words  for  it  as  sure  as 
there's  a  key  in  my  kiss.  Quick  erit  faciofacey.  When  we  will  conjugate  to- 
gether toloseher  tomaster  tomiss  while  morrow  fans  amare  hour,  verbe  de  vie 
and  verve  to  vie,  with  love  ay  loved  have  I  on  my  back  spine  and  does  for 
ever.  Your  are  me  severe?  Then  rue.  My  intended,  Jr,  who  I'm  throne  away 
on,  (here  he  inst,  my  lifstack,  a  newfolly  likon)  when  I  slip  through  my  pettigo 
I'll  get  my  decree  and  take  seidens  when  I'm  not  ploughed  first  by  some 
Rolando  the  Lasso,  and  flaunt  on  the  flimsyfilmsies  for  to  grig  my  collage 
juniorees  who,  though  they  flush  fuchsia,  are  they  octette  and  viginity  in  my 
shade  but  always  my  figurants.  They  may  be  yea  of  my  year  but  they're  nary 
nay  of  my  day.  Wait  till  spring  has  sprung  in  spickness  and  prigs  beg  in  to  pry 
they'll  be  plentyprime  of  housepets  to  pimp  and  pamper  my.  Impending  mar- 
riage. Nature  tells  everybody  about  but  I  learned  all  the  runes  of  the  gamest 
game  ever  from  my  old  nourse  Asa.  A  most  adventuring  trot  is  her  and  she 
vicking  well  knowed  them  all  heartswise  and  fourwords.  How  Olive  d'Oyly 
and  Winnie  Carr,  bejupers,  they  reized  the  dressing  of  a  salandmon  and  how  a 
peeper  coster  and  a  salt  sailor  med  a  mustied  poet  atwaimen.  It  most  have 
bean  Mad  Mullans  planted  him.  Bina  de  Bisse  and  Trestrine  von  Terrefin. 
Sago  sound,  rite  go  round,  kill  kackle,  kook  kettle  and  (remember  all  should 
I  forget  to)  bolt  the  thor.  Auden.  Wasn't  it  just  divining  that  dog  of  a  dag 
in  Skokholme  as  I  sat  astrid  uppum  their  Drewitt's  altar,  as  cooledas  as  cul- 
cumbre,  slapping  my  straights  till  the  sloping  ruins,  postillion,  postallion,  a 
swinge  a  swank,  with  you  offering  me  clouts  of  illscents  and  them  horners 
stagstruck  on  the  leasward!  Don't  be  of  red,  you  blanching  mench!  This 
Isabella  I'm  on  knows  the  ruelles  of  the  rut  and  she  don't  fear  andy  mandy.  So 
sing  loud,  sweet  cheeriot,  like  anegreon  in  heaven !  The  good  fother  with  the 
twingling  in  his  eye  will  always  have  cakes  in  his  pocket  to  bethroat  us  with 
for  our  allmichael  good.  Amum.  Amum.  And  Amum  again.  For  tough  troth 
is  stronger  than  fortuitous  fiction  and  it's  the  surplice  money,  oh  my  young 
friend  and  ah  me  sweet  creature,  what  buys  the  bed  while  wits  borrows  the 
clothes. 


MODES  COA- 
LESCING 
PROLIFER- 
ATE HOMO- 
GENUINE 
HOMOGEN- 
EITY. 


279 


Bihelous  hies- 
wry  and  Barbar- 
assa  harestary. 


A  shieling  in  cop^ 
fingers  and  por- 
rish  soup  all  days. 

How  matches 
metroosers? 


Le  helos  tombaut 
soul  sur  la  jambe 
de  marche. 


A  scene  at  sight.  Or  dreamoneire.  Which 
they  shall  memorise.  By  her  freewritten 
Hopely  for  ear  that  annalykeses  if  scares  for 
eye  that  sumns.  Is  it  in  the  now  woodwordings 
of  our  sweet  plantation  where  the  branchings 
then  will  singingsing  tomorrows  gone  and 
yesters  outcome  as  Satadays  aftermoon  lex 
leap  smiles  on  the  twelvemonthsminding? 
Such  is.  Dear  (name  of  desired  subject,  A.N.), 
well,  and  I  go  on  to.  Shlicksher.  I  and  we 
(tender  condolences  for  happy  funeral,  one 
if)  so  sorry  to  (mention  person  suppressed  for 
the  moment,  F.M.).  Well  (enquiries  after  all- 
healths)  how  are  you  (question  maggy).  A 
lovely  (introduce  to  domestic  circles)  pershan 
of  cates.  Shrubsher.  Those  pothooks  mostly 
she  hawks  from  Poppa  Vere  Foster  but  these 
curly  mequeues  are  of  Mippa's  moulding. 
Shrubsheruthr.  (Wave  gently  in  the  ere  turn- 
ing ptover.)  Well,  mabby  (consolation  of 
shopes)  to  soon  air.  With  best  from  cinder 
Christinette  if  prints  chumming,  can  be  when 
desires  Soldi,  for  asamples,  backfronted  or, 
if  all,  peethrolio  or  Get  my  Prize,  using  her 
flower  or  perfume  or,  if  veryveryvery  chum- 
ming, in  otherwards,  who  she  supposed  adeal, 
kissists  my  exits.  Shlicksheruthr.  From  Auburn 
chenlemagne.  Pious  and  pure  fair  one,  all  has 
concomitated  to  this  that  she  shall  tread  them 
lifetrees  leaves  whose  silence  hitherto  has 
shone  as  sphere  of  silver  fastalbarnstone,  that 
fount  Bandusian  shall  play  liquick  music  and 
after  odours  sigh  of  musk.  Blotsbloshblothe, 
one  dear  that  was.  Sleep  in  the  water,  drug  at 
the  fire,  shake  the  dust  off  and  dream  your  one 
who  would  give  her  sidecurls  to.  Till  later 

280 


Mai  maintenante 
lie  est  venuse. 


Twos  Dons  Johns 
^hrees  Tony 
iskins. 


ilso  Spuke 
erothruster. 


saxum  shillum 
)r  the  sextum 
It  nothums  for 
lat  parridge 


east. 


Lammas  is  led  in  by  baith  our  washwives,  a 
weird  of  wonder  tenebrous  as  that  evil  thorn- 
garth,  a  field  of  faery  blithe  as  this  flowing  wild. 

Aujourd'hui  comme  aux  temps  de  Pline  et  de 
Columelle  la  jacinthe  se  plait  dans  les  Gaules, 
la  pervenche  en  Illyrie,  la  marguerite  sur  les 
mines  de  Numance^  et  pendant  quautour  d'elles 
les  villes  ont  changi  de  maitres  et  de  noms,  que 
plusieurs  sont  entrees  dans  le  neanty  que  les 
civilisations  se  sont  choquees  et  brisees^  leurs 
paisihles  generations  ont  traversi  les  ages  et  sont 
arrivees  jusqua  nous,  fraiches  et  riantes  comme 
aux  jours  des  batailles,^ 

Margaritomancy!  Hyacinthinous  pervinci- 
veness!  Flowers.  A  cloud.  But  Bruto  and 
Cassio  are  ware  only  of  trifid  tongues^  the 
whispered  wilfulness,  ('tis  demonal!)  and  sha- 
dows shadows  multiplicating  (il  folsoletto  nel 
falsoletto  col  fazzolotto  dal  fuzzolezzo),*  to- 
tients  quotients,  they  tackle  their  quarrel.  Sicka- 
moor's  so  woful  sally.  Ancient's  aerger.  And 
eachway  bothwise  glory  signs.  What  if  she 
love  Sieger  less  though  she  leave  Ruhm  moan? 
That's  how  our  oxyggent  has  gotten  ahold  of 
half  their  world.  Moving  about  in  the  free  of 
the  air  and  mixing  with  the  ruck.  Enten  eller, 
either  or. 

And! 

Nay,  rather! 


THE  PART 
PLAYED  BY 
BELLETRI- 
STICKS IN 
THE  BELLUM- 
PAX-BEL- 
LUM. 

MUTUOMOR- 

PHOMUTA- 

TION. 


SORTES VIR- 
GINIANAE. 


INTERROGATION. 
EXCLAMATION. 


^  The  nasal  foss  of  our  natal  folkfarthers  so  so  much  now  for  Valsing- 
giddyrex  and  his  grand  arks  day  triump. 

2  Translout  that  gaswind  into  turfish,  Teague,  that's  a  good  bog  and  you, 
Thady,  poliss  it  off,  there's  a  nateswipe,  on  to  your  blottom  pulper. 

^  You  daredevil  donnelly,  I  love  your  piercing  lots  of  lies  and  your  flashy 
foreign  mail  so  here's  my  cowrie  card,  I  dalgo,  with  all  my  exes,  wise  and  sad. 

*  All  this  Mitchells  is  a  niggar  for  spending  and  I  will  go  to  the  length  of 
seeing  that  one  day  Big  Mig  will  be  nickleless  himself. 

281 


Tricks  stunts. 


Truckeys  cant 
for  dactyl  and 
spondee. 


Panoplous  pere- 
grine pifflicative 
pomposity. 


ITS  GIVE  AND  TAKE. 


AUSPICIUM. 
AUGURIA. 
DIVINITY 
NOT  DEITY 
THE  UNCER- 
TAINTY JUS- 
TIFIED BY 
OUR  CERTI- 
TUDE. 
EXAMPLES. 


With  sobs  for  his  job,  with  tears  antithesis  of  ambi- 
for  his  toil,  with  horror  for  his  squalor  dual  anticipation. 
but  with  pep  for  his  perdition,^  lo,  the  ^he  mind  factory, 
boor  plieth  as  the  laird  hireth  him. 
Boon  on  begyndelse. 
At  maturing  daily  gloryaims!^ 
A  flink  dab  for  a  freck  dive  and  a  stern  poise 
for  a  swift  pounce  was  frankily  at  the  manual 
arith  sure  enough  which  was  the  bekase  he 
knowed  from  his  cradle,  no  bird  better,  why 
his  fingures  were  giving  him  whatfor  to  fife 
with.  First,  by  observation,  there  came  boko 
and  nigh  him  wigworms  and  nigh  him  tittlies 
and  nigh  him  cheekadeekchimple  and  nigh 
him  pickpocket  with  pickpocketpumb,  pick- 
pocketpoint,  pickpocketprod,  pickpocket- 
promise  and  upwithem.  Holy  Joe  in  lay 
Eden.^  And  anyhows  always  after  them  the 
dimpler  he  weighed  the  fonder  fell  he  of  his 
null  four  lovedroyd  curdinals,  his  element  cur- 
dinal  numen  and  his  enement  curdinal  marryng 
and  his  epulent  curdinal  weisswassh  and  his 
eminent  curdinal  Kay  O'Kay.  Always  would 
he  be  reciting  of  them,  hoojahs  koojahs,  up  by 
rota,  in  his  Fanden's  catachysm  from  fursed  to 
laced,  quickmarch  to  decemvers,  so  as  to  pin  the 
tenners,  thumbs  down.  And  anon  and  aldays, 
strues  yerthere,  would  he  wile  arecreating  em 
om  lumerous  ways,  caiuscounting  in  the 
scale  of  pin  puff  pive  piff,  piff  puff  pive  poo, 
poo  puff  pive  pree,  pree  puff  pive  pfoor,  pfoor 
puff  pive  pippive,  poopive,*   Niall  Dhu, 

^  Wliile  I'll  wind  the  wildwoods'  bluckbells  among  my  window's  weeds. 

Lawdy  Dawdy  Simpers. 
^  But  where,  O  where,  is  me  lickle  dig  done? 

*  That's  his  whisper  waltz  I  like  from  Pigott's  with  that  Lancydancy  step. 
Stop. 

282 


i  


Non  plus  ulstra, 
Elba,  neCy  c  as  hel- 
ium tuum. 


Dondderwedder 
KyhoshicksaL 


Foughty  Unn,  Enoch  Thortig,  endso  one,  like 
to  pitch  of  your  cap,  pac,  on  to  tin  tall  spilli- 
cans.^  To  sum,  borus  pew  notus  pew  eurus 
pew  zipher.  Ace,  deuce,  tricks,  quarts,  quims. 
Mumtiplay  of  course  and  carry  to  their  whole 
number.  While  on  the  other  hand,  traduced 
by  their  comedy  nominator  to  the  loaferst 
terms  for  their  aloquent  parts,  sexes,  suppers, 
oglers,  novels  and  dice.^  He  could  find  (the 
rakehelly!)  by  practice  the  valuse  of  thine-to- 
mine  articles  with  no  reminder  for  an  equality 
of  relations  and,  with  the  helpings  from  his 
tables,  improduce  fullmin  to  trumblers,  links 
unto  chains,  weys  in  Nuffolk  till  tods  of 
Yorek,  oozies  ad  libs  and  several  townsends, 
several  hundreds,  civil-to-civil  imperious 
gallants  into  gells  (Irish),  bringing  alliving 
stone  allaughing  down  to  grave  clothnails  and 
a  league  of  archers,  fools  and  lurchers  under 
the  rude  rule  of  fumb.  What  signifieth  whole 
that^  but,  be  all  the  prowess  of  ten,  'tis  as 
strange  to  relate  he,  nonparile  to  rede,  rite  and 
reckan,  caught  allmeals  duUmarks  for  his 
nucleuds  and  alegobrew.  They  wouldn't  took 
bearings  no  how  anywheres.  O  them  dodd- 
hunters  and  allanights,  aabs  and  baas  for 
agnomes,  yees  and  zees  for  incognits,  bate 
him  up  jerrybly!  Worse  nor  herman  doror- 
rhea.  Give  you  the  fantods,  seemed  to  him. 
They  ought  to  told  you  every  last  word  first 
stead  of  trying  every  which  way  to  kinder 
smear  it  out  poison  long.  Show  that  the 

^  Twelve  buttles  man,  twentyeight  bows  of  curls,  forty  bonnets  woman 
and  ever  youthfully  yours  makes  alleven  add  the  hundred. 

2  Gamester  Damester  in  the  road  to  Rouen  he  grows  more  like  his  deed 
every  die. 
