fuchser  schouws  daft  as  a  fish!  He's  the  dibble's  own  doges  for 
doublin  existents!  But  a  jolly  fine  daysent  form  of  one  word. 
He's  rounding  up  on  his  family. 

And  who  is  the  bodikin  by  him,  sir?  So  voulzievalsshie?  With 
ybbs  and  zabs?  Her  trixiestrail  is  tripping  her,  vop!  Luck  at  the 
way  for  the  lucre  of  smoke  she's  looping  the  lamp !  Why,  that's 
old  missness  wipethemdry!  Well,  well,  wellsowells!  Donau- 
watter!  Ardechious  me!  With  her  half  bend  as  proud  as  a  peahen, 
allabalmy,  and  her  troutbeck  quiverlipe,  ninyananya.  And  her 
steptojazyma's  culunder  buzztle.  Happy  tea  area,  naughtygay 
frew!  Selling  sunlit  sopes  to  washtout  winches  and  rhaincold 
draughts  to  the  props  of  his  pubs.  She  tired  lipping  the  swells  at 
Pont  Delisle  till  she  jumped  the  boom  at  Brounemouth.  Now 
she's  horrid  his  head  under  Hatesbury's  Hatch  and  loamed  his 
fate  to  old  Love  Lane.  And  she's  just  the  same  old  haporth  of 
dripping.  She's  even  brennt  her  hair. 

Which  route  are  they  going?  Why?  Angell  sitter  or  Amen 
Corner,  Norwood's  South  walk  or  Euston  Waste?  The  solvent 
man  in  his  upper  gambeson  withnot  a  breth  against  him  and  the 
wee  wiping  womanahoussy.  They're  coming  terug  their  dia- 
mond wedding  tour,  giant's  inchly  elfkin's  ell,  vesting  their  char- 
acters vixendevolment,  andens  aller,  athors  err,  our  first  day  man 
and  your  dresser  and  mine,  that  Luxuumburgher  evec  cettehis 
Alzette,  konyglik  shire  with  his  queensh  countess,  Stepney's 

578 


shipchild  with  the  waif  of  his  bosun,  Dunmow's  flitcher  with 
duck-on-the-rock,  down  the  scales,  the  way  they  went  up, 
under  talis  and  threading  tormentors,  shunning  the  startraps  and 
slipping  in  sliders,  risking  a  runway,  ruing  reveals,  from  Elder 
Arbor  to  La  Puiree,  eskipping  the  clockback,  crystal  in  carbon, 
sweetheartedly.  Hot  and  cold  and  electrickery  with  attendance 
and  lounge  and  promenade  free.  In  spite  of  all  that  science  could 
boot  or  art  could  eke.  Bolt  the  grinden.  Cave  and  can  em. 
Single  wrecks  for  the  weak,  double  axe  for  the  mail,  and  quick 
queck  quack  for  the  radiose.  Renove  that  bible.  You  will  never 
have  post  in  your  pocket  unless  you  have  brasse  on  your  plate. 
Beggards  outdoor.  Goat  to  the  Endth,  thou  slowguard!  Mind 
the  Monks  and  their  Grasps.  Scrape  your  souls.  Commit  no 
miracles.  Postpone  no  bills.  Respect  the  uniform.  Hold  the  raa- 
bers  for  the  kunning  his  plethoron.  Let  leash  the  dooves  to  the 
cooin  her  coynth.  Hatenot  havenots.  Share  the  wealth  and  spoil 
the  weal.  Peg  the  pound  to  tom  the  devil.  My  time  is  on  draught. 
Bottle  your  own.  Love  my  label  like  myself.  Earn  before  eating. 
Drudge  after  drink.  Credit  tomorrow.  Follow  my  dealing.  Fetch 
my  price.  Buy  not  from  dives.  Sell  not  to  freund.  Herenow  chuck 
english  and  learn  to  pray  plain.  Lean  on  your  lunch.  No  cods 
before  Me.  Practise  preaching.  Think  in  your  stomach.  Import 
through  the  nose.  By  faith  alone.  Season's  weather.  Gomorrha. 
Salong.  Lots  feed  from  my  tidetable.  Oil's  wells  in  our  lands.  Let 
earwigger's  wivable  teach  you  the  dance! 

Now  their  laws  assist  them  and  ease  their  fall! 

For  they  met  and  mated  and  bedded  and  buckled  and  got  and 
gave  and  reared  and  raised  and  brought  Thawland  within  Har 
danger,  and  turned  them,  tarrying  to  the  sea  and  planted  and 
plundered  and  pawned  our  souls  and  pillaged  the  pounds  of  the 
extramurals  and  fought  and  feigned  with  strained  relations  and 
bequeathed  us  their  ills  and  recrutched  cripples  gait  and  under- 
mined lungachers,  manplanting  seven  sisters  while  wan  warm- 
wooed  woman  scrubbs,  and  turned  out  coats  and  removed  their 
origins  and  never  learned  the  first  day's  lesson  and  tried  to 
mingle  and  managed  to  save  and  feathered  foes'  nests  and  fouled 

579 


their  own  and  wayleft  the  arenotts  and  ponted  vodavalls  for  the 
zollgebordened  and  escaped  from  liquidation  by  the  heirs  of  their 
death  and  were  responsible  for  congested  districts  and  rolled 
oiled  logs  into  Peter's  sawyery  and  werfed  new  woodcuts  on 
Paoli's  wharf  and  ewesed  Rachel's  lea  and  rammed  Dominic's 
gap  and  looked  haggards  after  lazatables  and  rode  fourscore  odd- 
winters  and  struck  rock  oil  and  forced  a  policeman  and  col- 
laughsed  at  their  phizes  in  Toobiassed  and  Zachary  and  left  off 
leaving  off  and  kept  on  keeping  on  and  roused  up  drink  and 
poured  balm  down  and  were  cuffed  by  their  customers  and  bit 
the  dust  at  the  foot  of  the  poll  when  in  her  deergarth  he  gave  up 
his  goat  after  the  battle  of  Multaferry.  Pharoah  with  fairy,  two 
lie,  let  them!  Yet  they  wend  it  back,  qual  his  leif,  himmertality, 
bullseaboob  and  rivishy  divil,  light  in  hand,  helm  on  high,  to 
peekaboo  durk  the  thicket  of  slumbwhere,  till  their  hour  with 
their  scene  be  struck  for  ever  and  the  book  of  the  dates  he  close, 
he  clasp  and  she  and  she  seegn  her  tour  d'adieu,  Pervinca  calling, 
Soloscar  hears.  (O  Sheem!  O  Shaam!),  and  gentle  Isad  Ysut  gag, 
flispering  in  the  nightleaves  flattery,  dinsiduously,  to  Finnegan, 
to  sin  again  and  to  make  grim  grandma  grunt  and  grin  again 
while  the  first  grey  streaks  steal  silvering  by  for  to  mock  their 
quarrels  in  dollymount  tumbling. 

They  near  the  base  of  the  chill  stair,  that  large  incorporate 
licensed  vintner,  such  as  he  is,  from  former  times,  nine  hosts  in 
himself,  in  his  hydrocomic  establishment  and  his  ambling  limfy 
peepingpartner,  the  slave  of  the  ring  that  worries  the  hand  that 
sways  the  lamp  that  shadows  the  walk  that  bends  to  his  bane  the 
busynext  man  that  came  on  the  cop  with  the  fenian's  bark  that 
pickled  his  widow  that  primed  the  pope  that  passed  it  round  on 
the  volunteers'  plate  till  it  croppied  the  ears  of  Purses  Relle  that 
kneed  O'Connell  up  out  of  his  doss  that  shouldered  Burke  that 
butted  O'Hara  that  woke  the  busker  that  grattaned  his  crowd 
that  bucked  the  jiggers  to  rhyme  the  rann  that  flooded  the  routes 
in  Eryan's  isles  from  Malin  to  Clear  and  Carnsore  Point  to  Slyna- 
gollow  and  cleaned  the  pockets  and  ransomed  the  ribs  of  all  the 
listeners,  leud  and  lay,  that  bought  the  ballad  that  Hosty  made. 

580 


■1 


[i 

i 


Anyhow  (the  matter  is  a  troublous  and  a  peniloose)  have  they 
not  called  him  at  many's  their  mock  indignation  meeting,  veh- 
men's  vengeance  vective  volleying,  inwader  and  uitlander,  the 
notables,  crashing  libels  in  their  suUivan's  mounted  beards  about 
him,  their  right  renownsable  patriarch?  Heinz  cans  everywhere 
and  the  swanee  her  ainsell  and  Eyrewaker's  family  sock  that  they 
smuggled  to  life  betune  them,  roaring  (Big  Reilly  was  the  worst): 
free  boose  for  the  man  from  the  nark,  sure,  he  never  was  worth 
a  cornerwall  fark,  and  his  banishee's  bedpan  she's  a  quareold  bite 
of  a  tark:  as  they  wendelled  their  zingaway  wivewards  from  his 
find  me  cooFs  moist  opulent  vinery,  highjacking  through  the 
nagginneck  pass,  as  they  hauled  home  with  their  hogsheads, 
axpoxtelating,  and  claiming  cowled  consollation,  sursumcordial, 
from  the  bluefunkfires  of  the  dipper  and  the  martian's  frost? 

Use  they  not,  our  noesmall  termtraders,  to  abhors  offrom 
him,  the  yet  unregendered  thunderslog,  whose  sbrogue  cunneth 
none  lordmade  undersiding,  how  betwixt  wifely  rule  and  mens 
conscia  recti^  then  hemale  man  all  unbracing  to  omniwomen,  but 
now  shedropping  his  hitches  like  any  maidavale  oppersite  orse- 
riders  in  an  idinhole?  Ah,  dearo!  Dearo,  dear!  And  her  illian! 
And  his  willyum !  When  they  were  all  there  now,  matinmarked 
for  lookin  on.  At  the  carryfour  with  awlus  plawshus,  their  happy- 
ass  cloudious!  And  then  and  too  the  tri vials!  And  their  bivouac! 
And  his  monomyth!  Ah  ho!  Say  no  more  about  it!  Fm  sorry! 
I  saw.  I'm  sorry!  Fm  sorry  to  say  I  saw! 

Gives  there  not  too  amongst  us  after  all  events  (or  so  grunts 
a  leading  hebdromadary)  some  togethergush  of  stillandbutall- 
youknow  that,  insofarforth  as,  all  up  and  down  the  whole  con- 
creation  say,  efficient  first  gets  there  finally  every  time,  as  a  com- 
plex matter  of  pure  form,  for  those  excess  and  that  pasphault 
hardhearingness  from  their  eldfar,  in  grippes  and  rumblions, 
through  fresh  taint  and  old  treason,  another  like  that  alter  but 
not  quite  such  anander  and  stillandbut  one  not  all  the  selfsame 
and  butstillone  just  the  maim  and  encore  emmerhim  may  always, 
with  a  little  difference,  till  the  latest  up  to  date  so  early  in  the 
morning,  have  evertheless  been  allmade  amenable? 

581 


Yet  he  begottom. 

Let  us  wherefore,  tearing  ages,  presently  preposterose  a 
snatchvote  of  thanksalot  to  the  huskiest  coaxing  experimenter 
that  ever  gave  his  best  hand  into  chancerisk,  wishing  him  with 
his  famblings  no  end  of  slow  poison  and  a  mighty  broad  venue 
for  themselves  between  the  deviFs  punchbowl  and  the  deep 
angleseaboard,  that  they  may  gratefully  turn  a  deaf  ear  clooshed 
upon  the  desperanto  of  willynully,  their  shareholders  from  Taaffe 
to  Auliffe,  that  will  curse  them  below  par  and  mar  with  their 
descendants,  shame,  humbug  and  profit,  to  greenmould  upon 
mildew  over  jaundice  as  long  as  ever  there's  wagtail  surtaxed  to 
a  testcase  on  enver  a  man. 

We  have  to  had  them  whether  we'll  like  it  or  not.  They'll  have 
to  have  us  now  then  we're  here  on  theirspot.  Scant  hope  theirs 
or  ours  to  escape  life's  high  carnage  of  semperidentity  by  sub- 
sisting peasemeal  upon  variables.  Bloody  certainly  have  we  got 
to  see  to  it  ere  smellful  demise  surprends  us  on  this  concrete  that 
down  the  gullies  of  the  eras  we  may  catch  ourselves  looking 
forward  to  what  will  in  no  time  be  staring  you  larrikins  on  the 
postface  in  that  multimirror  megaron  of  returningties,  whirled 
without  end  to  end.  So  there  was  a  raughty  .  .  .  who  in  Dyfflins- 
borg  did  . . .  With  his  soddering  iron,  spadeaway,  hammerlegs 
and  . . .  Where  there  was  a  fair  young  .  .  .  Who  was  playing  her 
game  of .  .  .  And  said  she  you  rockaby  .  .  .  Will  you  peddle  in 
my  bog  .  .  .  And  he  sod  her  in  larland,  paved  her  way  from 
Maizenhead  to  Youghal.  And  that's  how  Humpfrey,  champion 
emir,  holds  his  own.  Shysweet,  she  rests. 

Or  show  pon  him  now,  will  you !  Derg  rudd  face  should  take 
Patrick's  purge.  Hokoway,  in  his  hiphigh  bearserk!  Third  posi- 
tion of  concord!  Excellent  view  from  front.  Sidome.  Female 
imperfectly  masking  male.  Redspot  his  browbrand.  Woman's 
the  prey!  Thon's  the  dullakeykongsbyogblagroggerswagginline 
(private  judgers,  change  here  for  Lootherstown!  Onlyromans, 
keep  your  seats !)  that  drew  all  ladies  please  to  our  great  mettroll- 
ops.  Leary,  leary,  twentytun  nearly,  he's  plotting  kings  down 
for  his  villa's  extension!  Gaze  at  him  now  in  momentum!  As  his 

582 


bridges  are  blown  to  babbyrags,  by  the  lee  of  his  hulk  upright 
on  her  orbits,  and  the  heave  of  his  juniper  arx  in  action,  he's 
naval  I  see.  Poor  little  tartanelle,  her  dinties  are  chattering,  the 
strait's  she's  in,  the  bulloge  she  bears!  Her  smirk  is  smeeching 
behind  for  her  hills.  By  the  queer  quick  twist  of  her  mobcap  and 
the  lift  of  her  shift  at  random  and  the  rate  of  her  gate  of  going 
the  pace,  two  thinks  at  a  time,  her  country  I'm  proud  of.  The 
field  is  down,  the  race  is  their  own.  The  galleonman  jovial  on  his 
bucky  brown  nightmare.  Bigrob  dignagging  his  lylyputtana. 
One  to  one  bore  one!  The  datter,  io,  io,  sleeps  in  peace,  in  peace. 
And  the  twillingsons,  ganymede,  garrymore,  turn  in  trot  and 
trot.  But  old  pairamere  goes  it  a  gallop,  a  gallop.  Bossford  and 
phospherine.  One  to  one  on! 

O,  O,  her  fairy  setalite!  Casting  such  shadows  to  Persia's 
blind!  The  man  in  the  street  can  see  the  coming  event.  Photo- 
flashing  it  far  too  wide.  It  will  be  known  through  all  Urania  soon. 
Like  jealousjoy  titaning  fear;  like  rumour  rhean  round  the  planets; 
like  china's  dragon  snapping  japets;  like  rhodagrey  up  the  east. 
Satyrdaysboost  besets  Phoebe's  nearest.  Here's  the  flood  and  the 
flaxen  flood  that's  to  come  over  helpless  Irryland.  Is  there  no-one 
to  malahide  Liv  and  her  bettyship.^  Or  who'll  buy  her  rosebuds, 
jettyblack  rosebuds,  ninsloes  of  nivia,  nonpaps  of  nan.'^  From  the 
fall  of  the  fig  to  doom's  last  post  every  ephemeral  anniversary  while 
the  park's  police  peels  peering  by  for  to  weight  down  morrals  from 
county  bubblin.  That  trainer's  trundling!  Quick,  pay  up! 

Kickakick.  She  had  to  kick  a  laugh.  At  her  old  stick-in-the- 
block.  The  way  he  was  slogging  his  paunch  about,  elbiduubled, 
meet  oft  mate  on,  like  hale  King  Willow,  the  robberer.  Cain- 
maker's  mace  and  waxened  capapee.  But  the  tarrant's  brand  on 
his  hottoweyt  brow.  At  half  past  quick  in  the  morning.  And  her 
lamp  was  all  askew  and  a  trumbly  wick-in-her,  ringeysingey. 
She  had  to  spofforth,  she  had  to  kicker,  too  thick  of  the  wick 
of  her  pixy's  loomph,  wide  lickering  jessup  the  smooky  shiminey. 
And  her  dufled  coverpoint  of  a  wickedy  batter,  whenever  she 
druv  behind  her  stumps  for  a  tyddlesly  wink  through  his  tunnil- 
clefft  bagslops  after  the  rising  bounder's  yorkers,  as  he  studd  and 

583 


Stoddard  and  trutted  and  trumpered,  to  see  had  lordherry's 
blackham's  red  bobby  abbels,  it  tickled  her  innings  to  consort 
pitch  at  kicksolock  in  the  morm.  Tipatonguing  him  on  in  her 
pigeony  linguish,  with  a  flick  at  the  bails  for  lubrication,  to  scorch 
her  faster,  faster.  Ye  hek,  ye  hok,  ye  hucky  hiremonger !  Magrath 
he's  my  pegger,  he  is,  for  bricking  up  all  my  old  kent  road. 
He'll  win  your  toss,  flog  your  old  tom's  bowling  and  I  darr  ye, 
barrackybuller,  to  break  his  duck!  He's  posh.  I  lob  him.  We're 
parring  all  Oogster  till  the  empsyseas  run  googlie.  Declare  to 
ashes  and  teste  his  metch!  Three  for  two  will  do  for  me  and  he 
for  thee  and  she  for  you.  Goeasyosey,  for  the  grace  of  the  fields, 
or  hooley  pooley,  cuppy,  we'll  both  be  bye  and  by  caught  in  the 
slips  for  fear  he'd  tyre  and  burst  his  dunlops  and  waken  her 
bornybarnies  making  his  boobybabies.  The  game  old  merri- 
mynn,  square  to  leg,  with  his  lolleywide  towelhat  and  his  hobbsy 
socks  and  his  wisden's  bosse  and  his  norsery  pinafore  and  his 
gentleman's  grip  and  his  playaboy's  plunge  and  his  flannelly 
feelyfooling,  treading  her  hump  and  hambledown  like  a  maiden 
wellheld,  ovalled  over,  with  her  crease  where  the  pads  of  her 
punishments  ought  to  be  by  womanish  rights  when,  keek,  the  hen 
in  the  doran's  shanty  queer  began  in  a  kikkery  key  to  laugh  it 
off,  yeigh,  yeigh,  neigh,  neigh,  the  way  she  was  wuck  to  doodle- 
doo  by  her  gallows  bird  (how's  that?  Noball,  he  carries  his  bat!) 
nine  hundred  and  dirty  too  not  out,  at  all  times  long  past  con- 
quering cock  of  the  morgans. 

How  blame  us.'^ 

Cocorico! 

Armigerend  everfasting  horde.  Rico !  So  the  bill  to  the  bowe. 
As  the  belle  to  the  beau.  We  herewith  pleased  returned  auditors' 
thanks  for  those  and  their  favours  since  safely  enjoined.  Coco- 
ree!  Tellaman  tillamie.  Tubbernacul  in  tipherairy,  sons,  travel- 
lers in  company  and  their  carriageable  tochters,  tanks  tight  anne 
thynne  for  her  contractations  tugowards  his  personeel.  Echo, 
choree  chorecho!  O  I  you  O  you  me!  Well,  we  all  unite  thought- 
fully in  rendering  gratias,  well,  between  loves  repassed,  begging 
your  honour's  pardon  for,  well,  exclusive  pigtorial  rights  of  here- 

584 


I 


hear  fond  tiplady  his  weekreations,  appearing  in  next  eon's  issue 
of  the  Neptune's  Centinel  and  Tritonville  Lightowler  with  well 
the  widest  circulation  round  the  whole  universe.  Echolo  choree 
choroh  choree  chorico !  How  me  O  my  youhou  my  I  youtou  to 
10?  Thanks  furthermore  to  modest  Miss  Glimglow  and  neat 
Master  Mettresson  who  so  kindly  profiteered  their  serwishes  as 
demysell  of  honour  and,  well,  as  strainbearer  respectively. 
And  a  cordiallest  brief  nod  of  chinchin  dankyshin  to,  well,  patient 
ringasend  as  prevenient  (by  your  leave),  to  all  such  occasions, 
detachably  replaceable  (thanks  too!  twos  intact!).  As  well  as 
his  auricular  of  Malthus,  the  promethean  paratonnerwetter  which 
first  (Pray  go!  pray  go!)  taught  love's  lightning  the  way  (pity 
shown)  to,  well,  conduct  itself  (mercy,  good  shot!  only  please 
don't  mention  it!).  Come  all  ye  goatfathers  and  groanmothers, 
come  all  ye  markmakers  and  piledrivers,  come  all  ye  labour- 
saving  devisers  and  chargeleyden  dividends,  firefinders,  water- 
workers,  deeply  condeal  with  him!  All  that  is  still  life  with  death 
inyeborn,  all  verbumsaps  yet  bound  to  be,  to  do  and  to  suffer, 
every  creature,  everywhere,  if  you  please,  kindly  feel  for  her! 
While  the  dapplegray  dawn  drags  nearing  nigh  for  to  wake  all 
droners  that  drowse  in  Dublin. 

Humperfeldt  and  Anunska,  wedded  now  evermore  in  annas- 
tomoses  by  a  ground  plan  of  the  placehunter,  whiskered  beau 
and  donahbella.  Totumvir  and  esquimeena,  who  so  shall  sepa- 
rate fetters  to  new  desire,  repeals  an  act  of  union  to  unite  in 
bonds  of  schismacy.  O  yes!  O  yes!  Withdraw  your  member! 
Closure.  This  chamber  stands  abjourned.  Such  precedent  is 
largely  a  cause  to  lack  of  collective  continencies  among  Don- 
nelly's orchard  as  lifelong  the  shadyside  to  Fairbrother's  field. 
Humbo,  lock  your  kekkle  up!  Anny,  blow  your  wickle  out! 
Tuck  away  the  tablesheet!  You  never  wet  the  tea!  And  you 
may  go  rightoway  back  to  your  Aunty  Dilluvia,  Humprey, 
after  that! 

Retire  to  rest  without  first  misturbing  your  nighboor,  man- 
kind of  baffling  descriptions.  Others  are  as  tired  of  themselves 
as  you  are.  Let  each  one  learn  to  bore  himself.  It  is  strictly  re- 

585 


quested  that  no  cobsmoking,  spitting,  pubchat,  wrastle  rounds, 
coarse  courting,  smut,  etc,  will  take  place  amongst  those  hours 
so  devoted  to  repose.  Look  before  behind  before  you  strip  you. 
Disrobe  clothed  in  the  strictest  secrecy  which  privacy  can  afford. 
Water  non  to  be  discharged  coram  grate  or  ex  window.  Never 
divorce  in  the  bedding  the  glove  that  will  give  you  away.  Maid 
Maud  ninnies  nay  but  blabs  to  Omama  (for  your  life,  would  you!) 
she  to  her  bosom  friend  who  does  all  chores  (and  what  do  you 
think  my  Madeleine  saw?):  this  ignorant  mosdy  sweeps  it  out 
along  with  all  the  rather  old  corporators  (have  you  heard  of  one 
humbled  own  jungleman  how  he  bet  byrn-and-bushe  playing 
peg  and  pom?):  the  maudlin  river  then  gets  its  dues  (adding  a 
din  a  ding  or  do):  thence  those  laundresses  (O,  muddle  me  more 
about  the  maggies!  I  mean  bawnee  Madge  Ellis  and  brownie 
Mag  Dillon).  Attention  at  all!  Every  ditcher's  dastard  in  Dupling 
will  let  us  know  about  it  if  you  have  paid  the  mulctman  by 
whether  your  rent  is  open  to  be  foreclosed  or  aback  in  your 
arrears.  This  is  seriously  meant.  Here  is  a  homelet  not  a  hothel. 
That's  right,  old  oldun! 

All  in  fact  is  soon  as  all  of  old  right  as  anywas  ever  in  very 
old  place.  Were  he,  hwen  scalded  of  that  couverfowl,  to  beat  the 
bounds  by  here  at  such  a  point  of  time  as  this  is  for  at  sammel 
up  all  wood's  haypence  and  riviers  argent  (half  back  from  three 
gangs  multaplussed  on  a  twentylot  add  allto  a  fiver  with  the 
deuce  or  roamer's  numbers  ell  a  fee  and  do  little  ones)  with  the 
caboosh  on  him  opheld  for  thrushes'  mistiles  yet  singing  oud  his 
parasangs  in  cornish  token:  mean  fawthery  eastend  appullcelery, 
old  laddy  he  high  hole:  pollysigh  patrolman  Seekersenn,  towney's 
tanquam,  crumlin  quiet  down  from  his  hoonger,  he  would  mac 
siccar  of  inket  goodsforetombed  ereshiningem  of  light  turkling 
eitheranny  of  thuncle's  windopes.  More,  unless  we  were  neverso 
wrongtaken,  if  he  brought  his  boots  to  pause  in  peace,  the  one 
beside  the  other  one,  right  on  the  road,  he  would  seize  no  sound 
from  cache  or  cave  beyond  the  flow  of  wand  was  gypsing  water, 
telling  him  now,  telling  him  all,  all  about  ham  and  livery,  stay 
and  toast  ham  in  livery,  and  buttermore  with  murmurladen,  to 

586 


I 


waker  oats  for  him  on  livery.  Faurore!  Fearhoure!  At  last  it 
past!  Loab  at  cod  then  herrin  or  wind  thin  mong  them  treen. 

Hiss!  Which  we  had  only  our  hazelight  to  see  with,  cert,  in 
our  point  of  view,  me  and  my  auxy,  Jimmy  d'Arcy,  hadn't  we, 
Jimmy?  —  Who  to  seen  with?  Kiss!  No  kidd,  captn,  which  he 
stood  us,  three  jolly  postboys,  first  a  couple  of  Mountjoys  and 
nutty  woodbines  with  his  cadbully's  choculars,  pepped  from  our 
Theoatre  Regal's  drolleries  puntomine,  in  the  snug  at  the  Cam- 
bridge Arms  of  Teddy  Ales  while  we  was  laying,  crown  jewels 
to  a  peanut,  was  he  stepmarm,  old  noseheavy,  or  a  wouldower, 
which  he  said,  lads,  a  taking  low  his  Whitby  hat,  lopping  off  the 
froth  and  whishing,  with  all  respectfulness  to  the  old  country, 
tomorow  comrades,  we,  his  long  life's  strength  and  cuirscrween 
loan  to  our  allhallowed  king,  the  pitchur  that  he's  turned  to 
weld  the  wall,  (Lawd  lengthen  him!)  his  standpoint  was, 
to  belt  and  blucher  him  afore  the  hole  pleading  churchal  and 
submarine  bar  yonder  but  he  made  no  class  at  all  in  port 
and  cemented  palships  between  our  trucers,  being  a  refugee, 
didn't  he,  Jimmy?  —  Who  true  to  me?  Sish!  Honeysuckler, 
that's  what  my  young  lady  here,  Fred  Watkins,  bugler  Fred,  all 
the  ways  from  Melmoth  in  Natal,  she  calls  him,  dip  the  colours, 
pet,  when  he  commit  his  certain  questions  vivaviz  the  secret 
empire  of  the  snake  which  it  was  on  a  point  of  our  sutton  down, 
how  was  it,  Jimmy?  —  Who  has  sinnerettes  to  declare?  Phiss ! 
Touching  our  Phoenix  Rangers'  nuisance  at  the  meeting  of  the 
waitresses,  the  daintylines,  Elsies  from  Chelsies,  the  two  leggle- 
gels  in  blooms,  and  those  pest  of  parkies,  twitch,  thistle  and 
charlock,  were  they  for  giving  up  their  fogging  trespasses 
by  order  which  we  foregathered  he  must  be  raw  in  cane 
sugar,  the  party,  no,  Jimmy  MacCawthelock?  Who  trespass 
against  me?  Briss!  That's  him  wiv  his  wig  on,  achewing  of  his 
maple  gum,  that's  our  grainpopaw.  Mister  Beardall,  an  accom- 
pliced  burgomaster,  a  great  one  among  the  very  greatest,  which 
he  told  us  privates  out  of  his  own  scented  mouf  he  used  to  was, 
my  lads,  afore  this  wineact  come,  what  say,  our  Jimmy  the 
chapelgoer?  — Who  fears  all  masters!  Hi,  Jocko  Nowlong,  my 

587 


own  sweet  boosy  love,  which  he  puts  his  feeler  to  me  behind 
the  beggar's  bush,  does  Freda,  don't  you  be  an  emugee!  Carry- 
one,  he  says,  though  we  marooned  through  this  woylde.  We 
must  spy  a  half  a  hind  on  honeysuckler  now  his  old  face's 
hardalone  wiv  his  defences  down  during  his  wappin  stillstand, 
says  my  Fred,  and  Jamessime  here  which,  pip  it,  she  simply  must, 
she  says,  our  pet,  she'll  do  a  retroussy  from  her  point  of  view 
(Way  you  fly!  Like  a  frush!)  to  keep  her  flouncies  off  the 
grass  while  paying  the  wetmenots  a  musichall  visit  and  pair  her 
fiefighs  fore  him  with  just  one  curl  after  the  cad  came  back  which 
we  fought  he  wars  a  gunner  and  his  corkiness  lay  up  two  bottles 
of  joy  with  a  shandy  had  by  Fred  and  a  Jino  oloroso  which  he 
was  warming  to,  my  right,  Jimmy,  my  old  brown  freer?  — 
Whose  dolour,  O  so  mine! 

Following  idly  up  to  seepoint,  neath  kingmount  shadow  the 
ilk  for  eke  of  us,  whose  nathem's  banned,  whose  hofd  a-hooded, 
welkim  warsail,  how  di'  you  dew?  Hollymerry,  ivysad,  whicher 
and  whoer,  Mr  Black  Atkins  and  you  tanapanny  troopertwos, 
were  you  there?  Was  truce  of  snow,  moonmounded  snow?  Or 
did  wolken  hang  o'er  earth  in  umber  hue  his  fulmenbomb? 
Number  two  coming!  Full  inside!  Was  glimpsed  the  mean 
amount  of  cloud?  Or  did  pitter  rain  fall  in  a  sprinkling?  If  the 
waters  could  speak  as  they  flow!  Timgle  Tom,  pall  the  bell! 
Izzy's  busy  down  the  dell!  Mizpah  low,  youyou,  number 
one,  in  deep  humidity!  Listen,  misled  peerless,  please!  You 
are  of  course.  You  miss  him  so,  to  listleto!  Of  course,  my 
pledge  between  us,  there's  no-one  Noel  like  him  here  to 
hear.  Esch  so  eschess,  douls  a  doulse!  Since  Allan  Rogue 
loved  Arrah  Pogue  it's  all  Killdoughall  fair.  Triss!  Only  trees 
such  as  these  such  were  those,  waving  there,  the  barketree,  the 
o'briertree,  the  rowantree,  the  o'corneltree,  the  behanshrub  near 
windy  arbour,  the  magill  o'dendron  more.  Trem!  All  the  trees 
in  the  wood  they  trembold,  humbild,  when  they  heard  the  stop- 
press  from  domday's  erewold. 

Tiss !  Two  pretty  mistletots,  ribboned  to  a  tree,  up  rose  libe- 
rator and,  fancy,  they  were  free!  Four  witty  missy  wives,  wink- 

588 


! 

} 


ing  under  hoods,  made  lasses  like  lads  love  maypoleriding  and 
dotted  our  green  with  tricksome  couples,  fiftyfifty,  their  chil- 
tren's  hundred.  So  childish  pence  took  care  of  parents'  pounds 
and  many  made  money  the  way  in  the  world  where  rushroads 
to  riches  crossed  slums  of  lice  and,  the  cause  of  it  all,  he  forged 
himself  ahead  like  a  blazing  urbanorb,  brewing  treble  to  drown 
grief,  giving  and  taking  mayom  and  tuam,  playing  milliards  with 
his  three  golden  balls,  making  party  capital  out  of  landed  self- 
interest,  light  on  a  slavey  but  weighty  on  the  bourse,  our  hugest 
commercial  emporialist,  with  his  sons  booing  home  from  afar 
and  his  daughters  bridling  up  at  his  side.  Finner! 

How  did  he  bank  it  up,  swank  it  up,  the  whaler  in  the  punt, 
a  guinea  by  a  groat,  his  index  on  the  balance  and  such  wealth 
into  the  bargain,  with  the  boguey  which  he  snatched  in  the 
baggage  coach  ahead.'^  Going  forth  on  the  prowl,  master  jackill, 
under  night  and  creeping  back,  dog  to  hide,  over  morning. 
Humbly  to  fall  and  cheaply  to  rise,  exposition  of  failures. 
Through  Duffy's  blunders  and  MacKenna's  insurance  for  upper 
ten  and  lower  five  the  band  played  on.  As  one  generation  tells 
another.  Ofter  the  fall.  First  for  a  change  of  a  seven  days  license 
he  wandered  out  of  his  farmer's  health  and  so  lost  his  early 
parishlife.  Then  ('twas  in  fenland)  occidentally  of  a  sudden,  six 
junelooking  flamefaces  straggled  wild  out  of  their  turns  through 
his  parsonfired  wicket,  showing  all  shapes  of  striplings  in  sleepless 
tights.  Promptly  whomafter  in  undated  times,  very  properly  a 
dozen  generations  anterior  to  themselves,  a  main  chanced  to  burst 
and  misflooded  his  fortunes,  wrothing  foulplay  over  his  fives' 
court  and  his  fine  poultryyard  wherein  were  spared  a  just  two  of 
a  feather  in  wading  room  only.  Next,  upon  due  rerlotation,  up 
started  four  hurrigan  gales  to  smithereen  his  plateglass  house- 
walls  and  the  slate  for  accounts  his  keeper  was  cooking.  Then 
came  three  boy  buglehorners  who  counterbezzled  and  cross- 
bugled  him.  Later  on  in  the  same  evening  two  hussites  ab- 
sconded through  a  breach  in  his  bylaws  and  left  him,  the  infidels, 
to  pay  himself  off  in  kind  remembrances.  Till,  ultimatehim,  fell 
the  crowning  barleystraw,  when  an  explosium  of  his  distilleries 

589 


deafadumped  all  his  dry  goods  to  his  most  favoured  sinflute  and 
dropped  him,  what  remains  of  a  heptark,  leareyed  and  letterish, 
weeping  worrybound  on  his  bankrump. 

Pepep.  Pay  bearer,  sure  and  sorry,  at  foot  of  ohoho  honest 
policist.  On  never  again,  by  Phoenis,  swore  on  him  Lloyd's, 
not  for  beaten  wheat,  not  after  Sir  Joe  Meade's  father,  thanks! 
They  know  him,  the  covenanter,  by  rote  at  least,  for  a  chameleon 
at  last,  in  his  true  falseheaven  colours  from  ultraviolent  to  subred 
tissues.  That's  his  last  tryon  to  march  through  the  grand 
tryomphal  arch.  His  reignbolt's  shot.  Never  again!  How  you  do 
that  like,  Mista  Chimepiece.'^  You  got  nice  yum  plemyums.  Pray- 
paid  my  promishles! 

Agreed,  Wu  Welsher,  he  was  chogfulled  to  beacsate  on  earn 
as  in  hiving,  of  foxold  conningnesses  but  who,  hey  honey,  for 
all  values  of  his  latters,  integer  integerrimost,  was  the  formast 
of  the  firm.'^  At  folkmood  hailed,  at  part  farwailed,  accwmwladed 
concloud,  Nuah-Nuah,  Nebob  of  Nephilim!  After  all  what  fol- 
lowed for  apprentice  sake?  Since  the  now  nighs  nearing  as  the 
yetst  hies  hin.  Jeebies,  ugh,  kek,  ptah,  that  was  an  ill  man !  Jaw- 
boose,  puddigood,  this  is  for  true  a  sweetish  mand!  But  Jum- 
bluffer,  bagdad,  sir,  yond  would  be  for  a  once  over  our  all 
honoured  christmastyde  easteredman.  Fourth  position  of  solu- 
tion. How  johnny!  Finest  view  from  horizon.  Tableau  final. 
Two  me  see.  Male  and  female  unmask  we  hem.  Begum  by  gunnel 
Who  now  broothes  oldbrawn.  Dawn!  The  nape  of  his  name- 
shielder's  scalp.  Halp!  After  having  drummed  all  he  dun.  Hun! 
Worked  out  to  an  inch  of  his  core.  More!  Ring  down.  While 
the  queenbee  he  staggerhorned  blesses  her  bliss  for  to  feel  her 
funnyman's  functions  Tag.  Rumbling. 

Tiers,  tiers  and  tiers.  Rounds. 


590 


IV 


ill, 

111 


I 

i 

i 


1 


I 


4 


Sandhyas!  Sandhyas!  Sandhyas! 

Calling  all  downs.  Calling  all  downs  to  dayne.  Array!  Surrec- 
tion !  Eireweeker  to  the  wohld  bludyn  world.  O  rally,  O  rally,  O 
rally!  Phlenxty,  O  rally!  To  what  lifelike  thyne  of  the  bird  can 
be.  Seek  you  somany  matters.  Haze  sea  east  to  Osseania.  Here! 
Here !  Tass,  Patt,  Staff,  Woff,  Haw,  Bluvv  and  Rutter.  The  smog  "l^^-r^A 
is  lofting.  And  already  the  olduman's  olduman  has  godden  up  on 
othertimes  to  litanate  the  bonnamours.  Sonne  feine,  somme 
feehn  avaunt!  Guld  modning,  have  yous  viewsed  Piers'  aube.'^ 
Thane  yaars  agon  we  have  used  yoors  up  since  when  we  have 
fused  now  orther.  Calling  all  daynes.  Calling  all  daynes  to  dawn. 
The  old  breeding  bradsted  culminwillth  of  natures  to  Foyn  Mac- 
Hooligan.  The  leader,  the  leader!  Securest  jubilends  albas  Te- 
moram.  Clogan  slogan.  Quake  up,  dim  dusky,  wook  doom  for 
husky!  And  let  Billey  Feghin  be  baallad  out  of  his  humuluation. 
Confindention  to  churchen.  We  have  highest  gratifications  in 
announcing  to  pewtewr  publikumst  of  pratician  pratyusers,  gen- 
ghis  is  ghoon  for  you. 

A  hand  from  the  cloud  emerges^,  holding  a  chart  expanded. 

The  eversower  of  the  seeds  of  light  to  the  cowld  owld  sowls 
that  are  in  the  domnatory  of  Defmut  after  the  night  of  the  carry- 
ing of  the  word  of  Nuahs  and  the  night  of  making  Mehs  to  cuddle 
up  in  a  coddlepot,  Pu  Nuseht,  lord  of  risings  in  the  yonderworld 
of  Ntamplin,  tohp  triumphant,  speaketh. 

593 
