your  eye.  We'll  meet  again,  we'll  part  once  more.  The  spot  I'll 
seek  if  the  hour  you'll  find.  My  chart  shines  high  where  the  blue 
milk's  upset.  Forgivemequick,  I'm  going!  Bubye!  And  you, 
pluck  your  watch,  forgetmenot.  Your  evenlode.  So  save  to 
jurna's  end!  My  sights  are  swimming  thicker  on  me  by  the  sha- 
dows to  this  place.  I  sow  home  slowly  now  by  own  way,  moy- 
valley  way.  Towy  I  too,  rathmine. 

Ah,  but  she  was  the  queer  old  skeowsha  anyhow,  Anna  Livia, 
trinkettoes!  And  sure  he  was  the  quare  old  buntz  too.  Dear  Dirty 
Dumpling,  foostherfather  of  fingalls  and  dotthergills.  Gammer 
and  gaffer  we're  all  their  gangsters.  Hadn't  he  seven  dams  to  wive 
him.'^  And  every  dam  had  her  seven  crutches.  And  every  crutch 
had  its  seven  hues.  And  each  hue  had  a  differing  cry.  Sudds  for 
me  and  supper  for  you  and  the  doctor's  bill  for  Joe  John.  Befor! 
Bifur!  He  married  his  markets,  cheap  by  foul,  I  know,  like  any 
Etrurian  Catholic  Heathen,  in  their  pinky  limony  creamy  birnies 
and  their  turkiss  indienne  mauves.  But  at  milkidmass  who  was 
the  spouse.'^  Then  all  that  was  was  fair.  Tys  Elvenland !  Teems  of 
times  and  happy  returns.  The  seim  anew.  Ordovico  or  viricordo. 
Anna  :was,  Livia  is,^  Plurabelle's  to  be.  Northmen's  thing  made 
southfolk's  place  but  howmulty  plurators  made  eachone  in  per- 
son.'^ Latin  me  that,  my  trinity  scholard,  out  of  cure  sanscreed  into 
oure  eryan!  Hircus  Civis  Ehlanensis!  He  had  buckgoat  paps  on 
him,  soft  ones  for  orphans.  Ho,  Lord !  Twins  of  his  bosom.  Lord 
save  us!  And  ho!  Hey.^  What  all  men.  Hot.^  His  tittering  daugh- 
ters of.  Whawk.^ 

Can't  hear  with  the  waters  of.  The  chittering  waters  of.  Flitter- 
ing bats,  fieldmice  bawk  talk.  Ho!  Are  you  not  gone  ahome.'* 
What  Thom  Malone.^  Can't  hear  with  bawk  of  bats,  all  thim  liffey- 
ing  waters  of.  Ho,  talk  save  us !  My  foos  won't  moos.  I  feel  as  old 
as  yonder  elm.  A  tale  told  of  Shaun  or  Shem.^  All  Livia's  daughter- 
sons.  Dark  hawks  hear  us.  Night!  Night!  My  ho  head  halls.  I  feel 

215 


as  heavy  as  yonder  stone.  Tell  me  of  John  or  Shaun?  Who  were 
Shem  and  Shaun  the  living  sons  or  daughters  of?  Night  now! 
Tell  me,  tell  me,  tell  me,  elm!  Night  night!  Telmetale  of  stem  or 
stone.  Beside  the  rivering  waters  of,  hitherandthithering  waters 
of.  Night! 


216 


II 


L 


Every  evening  at  lighting  up  o'clock  sharp  and  until  further 
notice  in  Feenichts  Playhouse.  (Bar  and  conveniences  always 
open,  Diddlem  Club  douncestears.)  Entrancings:  gads,  a  scrab; 
the  quality,  one  large  shilling.  Newly  billed  for  each  wickeday 
perfumance.  Somndoze  massinees.  By  arraignment,  childream's 
hours,  expercatered.  Jampots,  rinsed  porters,  taken  in  token.  With 
nightly  redistribution  of  parts  and  players  by  the  puppetry  pro- 
ducer and  daily  dubbing  of  ghosters,  with  the  benediction  of  the 
Holy  Genesius  Archimimus  and  under  the  distinguished  patron- 
age of  their  Elderships  the  Oldens  from  the  four  coroners  of 
Findrias,  Murias,  Gorias  and  Falias,  Messoirs  the  Coarbs,  Clive 
SoUis,  Galorius  Kettle,  Pobiedo  Lancey  and  Pierre  Dusort, 
while  the  Caesar-in-Chief  looks.  On.  Sennet.  As  played  to  the  "  '  ^  ^ 
Adelphi  by  the  Brothers  Bratislavoff  (Hyrcan  and  Haristobulus), 
f\  after  humpteen  dumpteen  revivals.  Before  all  the  King's  Hoarsers 
with  all  the  Queen's  Mum.  And  wordloosed  over  seven  seas 
crowdblast  in  cellelleneteutoslavzendlatinsoundscript.  In  four 
tubbloids.  While  fern  may  cald  us  until  firn  make  cold.  The  Mime 
oj  Micky  Nick  and  the  Maggies^  adopted  from  the  Ballymooney 
Bloodriddon  Murther  by  Bluechin  Blackdillain  (authorways  *Big 
Storey'),  featuring: 

GLUGG  (Mr  Seumas  McQuillad,  hear  the  riddles  between  the  ^  ^  ^ 
robot  in  his  dress  circular  and  the  gagster  in  the  rogues'  gallery), 
the  bold^ad  bleak  boy  of  the  storybooks,  who,  when  the  tabs  go 


up,  as  we  discover,  because  he  knew  to  mutch,  has  been  divorced 
into  disgrace  court  by 

THE  FLORAS  (Girl  Scouts  froHi  St.  Bride's  Finishing  Establish- 
ment, demand  acidulateds),  a  month's  bunch  of  pretty  maidens 
who,  while  they  pick  on  her,  their  pet  peeve,  form  with  valkyri- 
enne  licence  the  guard  for 

izoD  (Miss  Butys  Pott,  ask  the  attendantess  for  a  leaflet),  a  be- 
witching blonde  who  dimples  delightfully  and  is  approached  in 
loveliness  only  by  her  grateful  sister  reflection  in  a  mirror,  the  cloud 
of  the  opal,  who,  having  jilted  GJugg,  is  being  fatally  fascinated  by 

CHUFF  (Mr  Sean  O'Mailey,  see  the  chalk  and  sanguine  picto- 
graph  on  the  safety  drop),  the  fine  frank  fairhaired  fellow  of  the 
fairytales,  who  wrestles  for  tophole  with  the  bold  bad  bleak  boy 
Glugg,  geminally  about  caps  or  puds  or  tog  bags  or  bog  gats  or 
chuting  rudskin  gunerally  or  something,  until  they  adumbrace  a 
pattern  of  somebody  else  or  other,  after  which  they  are  both  car- 
ried oflF  the  set  and  brought  home  to  be  well  soaped,  sponged  and 
scrubbed  again  by 

ANN  (Miss  Corrie  Corriendo,  Grischun  scoula,  bring  the  babes, 
Pieder,  Poder  and  Turtey,  she  mistributes  mandamus  monies, 
after  perdunamento,  hendrud  aloven  entrees,  pulcinellis  must  not 
miss  our  national  rooster's  rag),  their  poor  little  old  mother-in- 
lieu,  who  is  woman  of  the  house,  playing  opposite  to 

HUMP  (Mr  Makeall  Gone,  read  the  sayings  from  Laxdalesaga 
in  the  programme  about  King  Ericus  of  Schweden  and  the  spirit's 
whispers  in  his  magical  helmet),  cap-a-pipe  with  watch  and  top- 
per, coat,  crest  and  supporters,  the  cause  of  all  our  grievances, 
the  whirl,  the  flash  and  the  trouble,  who,  having  partially  re- 
covered from  a  recent  impeachment  due  to  egg  everlasting,  but 
throughandthoroughly  proconverted,  propounded  for  cyclo- 
logical,  is,  studding  sail  once  more,  jibsheets  and  royals,  in  the 
semblance  of  the  substance  for  the  membrance  of  the  umbrance 
with  the  remnance  of  the  emblence  reveiling  a  quemdam  super- 
cargo, of  The  Rockery,  Poopinheavin,  engaged  in  entertaining 
in  his  pilgrimst  customhouse  at  Caherlehome-upon-Eskur  those 
statutory  persons 

220 


THE  CUSTOMERS  (Components  of  the  Afterhour  Courses  at  St. 
Patricius'  Academy  for  Grownup  Gentlemen,  consult  the  annu- 
ary,  coldporters  sibsuction),  a  bundle  of  a  dozen  of  representa- 
tive locomotive  civics,  each  inn  quest  of  outings,  who  are  still    ^  /  sa^- 
more  sloppily  served  after  every  cup  final  by 

SAUNDERSON  (Mr  Kuut  Oelsvinger,  Tiffsdays  off,  wouldntstop 
in  bad,  imitation  of  flatfish,  torchbearing  supperaape,  dud  half-  ^/ct^'*  ^ 
sovereign,  no  chee  daily,  roily  pollsies.  Glen  of  the  Downs,  the 
Gugnir,  his  geyswerks,  his  earsequack,  his  lokistroki,  o.s.v.),  a 
scherinsheiner  and  spoilcurate,  unconcerned  in  the  mystery  but 
under  the  inflounce  of  the  milldieuw  and  butt  of 

KATE  (Miss  Rachel  Lea  Varian,  she  tells  forkings  for  baschfel- 
lors,  under  purdah  of  card  palmer  teaput  tosspot  Madam  d'Elta, 
during  the  pawses),  kook-and-dishdrudge,  whitch  believes  wan- 
thingthats,  whouse  be  the  churchyard  or  whorts  up  the  aasgaars, 
the  show  must  go  on. 

Time:  the  pressant.  r 

With  futurist  onehorse  balletbattle  pictures  and  the  Pageant 
of  Past  History  worked  up  with  animal  variations  amid  ever-  t-^^ 
glaning  mangrovemazes  and  beorbtracktors  by  Messrs  Thud  and 
Blunder.  Shadows  by  the  film  folk,  masses  by  the  good  people. 
Promptings  by  Elanio  Vitale.  Longshots,  upcloses,  outblacks  and  i  <  I  -  ^  . ' 
stagetolets  by  Hexenschuss,  Coachmaher,  Incubone  and  Rock- 
narrag.  Creations  tastefully  designed  by  Madame  Berthe  Dela- 
mode.  Dances  arranged  by  Harley  Quinn  and  Coollimbeina. 
Jests,  jokes,  jigs  and  jorums  for  the  Wake  lent  from  the  properties 
of  the  late  cemented  Mr  T.  M.  Finnegan  R.I.C.  Lipmasks  and 
hairwigs  by  Ouida  Nooikke.  Limes  and  Floods  by  Crooker  and 
Toll.  Kopay  pibe  by  Kappa  Pedersen.  Hoed  Pine  hat  with 
twentyfour  ventholes  by  Morgen.  Bosse  and  stringbag  from 
Heteroditheroe's  and  All  Ladies'  presents.  Tree  taken  for  grafted. 
Rock  rent.  Phenecian  blends  and  Sourdanian  doofpoosts  by 
Shauvesourishe  and  Wohntbedarft.  The  oakmulberryeke  with 
silktrick  twomesh  from  Shop-Sowry,  seedsmanchap.  Grabstone 
beg  from  General  Orders  Mailed.  The  crack  (that's  Cork!)  by 
a  smoker  from  the  gods.  The  interjection  (Buckley!)  by  the  fire- 


221  , 


ment  in  the  pit.  Accidental  music  providentially  arranged  by 
L'Archet  and  Laccorde.  Melodiotiosities  in  purefusion  by  the 
score.  To  start  with  in  the  beginning,  we  need  hirtly  bemark, 
a  community  prayer,  everyone  for  himself,  and  to  conclude 
with  as  an  exodus,  we  think  it  well  to  add,  a  chorale  in  canon, 
good  for  us  all  for  us  all  us  all  all.  Songs  betune  the  acts  by 
the  ambiamphions  of  Annapolis,  Joan  MockComic,  male  so- 
prano, and  Jean  Souslevin,  bass  noble,  respectively:  O,  Mester 
Sogermon,  ef  thes  es  whot  ye  deux,  then  I'm  not  surpleased  ye 
want  that  bottle  of  Sauvequipeu  and  Oh  Off  Nunch  Der  Rasche 
Ver  Lasse  Mitsch  Nitscht.  Till  the  summit  scenes  of  climbacks 
castastrophear.  The  Bearded  Mountain  (Polymop  Barethe- 
rootsch),  and  The  River  Romps  to  Nursery  (Maidykins  in  Undi- 
form).  The  whole  thugogmagog,  including  the  portions  under- 
stood to  be  oddmitted  as  the  results  of  the  respective  titulars 
neglecting  to  produce  themselves,  to  be  wound  up  for  an  after- 
enactment  by  a  Magnificent  Transformation  Scene  showing  the 
Radium  Wedding  of  Neid  and  Moorning  and  the  Dawn  of 
Peace,  Pure,  Perfect  and  Perpetual,  Waking  the  Weary  of  the 
World. 

An  argument  follows. 

Chuffy  was  a  nangel  then  and  his  soard  fleshed  light  like  like- 
ning. Fools  top!  Singty,  sangty,  meekly  loose,  defendy  nous  from 
prowlabouts.  Make  a  shine  on  the  curst.  Emen. 

But  the  duvlin  sulph  was  in  Glugger,  that  lost-to-lurning. 
Punct.  He  was  sbufiing  and  sputing,  tussing  like  anisine,  whip- 
ping his  eyesoult  and  gnatsching  his  teats  over  the  brividies  from 
existers  and  the  outher  liubbocks  of  life.  He  halth  kelchy  chosen 
a  clayblade  and  makes  prayses  to  his  three  of  clubs.  To  part  from 
these,  my  corsets,  is  into  overlusting  fear.  Acts  of  feet,  hoof  and 
jarrety:  athletes  longfoot.  Djowl,  uphere! 

Aminxt  that  nombre  of  evelings,  but  how  pierceful  in  their  so- 
jestiveness  were  those  first  girly  stirs,  with  zitterings  of  flight  re- 
leased and  twinglings  of  twitchbells  in  rondel  after,  with  waver- 
ings that  made  shimmershake  rather  naightily  all  the  duskcended 
airs  and  shylit  beaconings  from  shehind  hims  back.  Sammy,  call 

222 


I  I 


on.  Mirrylamb,  she  was  shuffering  all  the  diseasinesses  of  the  un- 

herd  of.  Mary  Louisan  Shousapinas !  If  Arck  could  no  more  salve 

his  agnols  from  the  wiles  of  willy  wooly  woolf !  If  all  the  airish 

signics  of  her  dipandump  helpabit  from  an  Father  Hogam  till 

the  Mutther  Masons  could  not  that  Glugg  to  catch  her  by  the 

calour  of  her  brideness!  Not  Rose,  Sevilla  nor  Citronelle;  not 

Esmeralde,  Pervinca  nor  Indra;  not  Viola  even  nor  all  of  them  ^    .^yV  ^^i-*^ 

four  themes  over.  But,  the  rnqnthage  stick  in  the  melmelode  jawr,  A^^^^^^^v'^ 

I  am  (twintomine)  all  thees  thing.  Up  tighty  in  the  front,  down 

again  on  the  loose,  drim  and  drumming  on  her  back  and  a  pop 

from  her  whistle.  What  is  that,  O  holy  troopers.^  Isot  givin  yoe? 

Up  he  stulpled,  glee  you  gees,  with  search  a  fling  did  die  near 
sea,  beamy  owen  and  calmy  hugh  and  if  you  what  you  my  call  for 
me  I  will  wishyoumaycull  for  you. 

And  they  are  met,  face  a  facing.  They  are  set,  force  to  force. 
And  no  such  Copenhague-Marengo  was  less  so  fated  for  a  fall 
since  in  Glenasmole  of  Smiling  Thrushes  Patch  Whyte  passed 
O 'Sheen  ascowl. 

Arrest  thee,  scaldbrother !  came  the  evangelion,  sabre  accu- 
sant, from  all  Sairit  Joan's  Wood  to  kill  or  maim  him,  and  be  / 
dumm  but  ill  s'arrested.  Et  would  proffer  to  his  delected  one  the 
his  trifle  from  the  grass. 

A  space.  W^ho  are  you.'^  The  cat's  mother.  A  time.  What  do 
you  lack.^  The  look  of  a  queen. 

But  what  is  that  which  is  one  going  to  prehend.'^  Seeks,  buzzling 
is  brains,  the  feinder. 

The  howtosayto  itiswhatis  hemustwhomust  worden  schall. 
A  darktongues,  kunning.  O  theoperil!  Ethiaop  lore,  the  poor  lie.  k  -^  ^  ^  ' 
He  askit  of  the  hoothed  fireshield  but  it  was  untergone  into  the 
matthued  heaven.  He  soughed  it  from  the  luft  but  that  bore  ne  il  ' 
mark  ne  message.  He  luked  upon  the  bloomingrund  where  ongly 
his  corns  were  growning.  At  last  he  listed  back  to  beckline  how 
she^ranked  alone_so  johntily.  The  skand  for  schooling.        M  ^ 

With  nought  a  wired  from  the  wordless  either. 

Item.  He  was  hardset  then.  He  wented  to  go  (somewhere)  while 
he  was  weeting.  Utem.  He  wished  to  grieve  on  the  good  persons,  that 

223 


is  the  four  gentlemen.  Otem.  And  it  was  not  a  long  time  till  he  was 
feeling  true  forim  he  was  goodda  purssia  and  it  was  short  after  that 
he  was  fooling  mehaunt  to  mehynte  he  was  an  injine  ruber.  Etem. 
He  was  at  his  thinker's  aunts  to  give  (the  four  gentlemen)  the 
presence  (of  a  curpse).  And  this  is  what  he  would  be  willing.  He 
fould  the  fourd;  they  found  the  hurtled  stones;  they  fell  ill  with  the 
gravy  duck:  and  he  sod  town  with  the  roust  of  the  meast.  Atem. 
Towhere  byhangs  ourtales. 

Ah  ho!  This  poor  Glugg!  It  was  so  said  of  him  about  of  his  old 
fontmouther.  Truly  deplurabel!  Adire,  Odire!  And  all  the  freight- 
fullness  whom  he  inhebited  after  his  colline  born  janitor.  Some- 
time towerable !  With  that  hehry  antlets  on  him  and  the  bauble- 
light  bulching  out  of  his  sockets  whiling  away  she  sprankled  his 
allover  with  her  noces  of  interregnation:  How  do  you  do  that  lack 
a  lock  and  pass  the  poker,  please.'^  And  bids  him  tend  her,  lute 
and  airly.  Sing,  sweetharp,  thing  to  me  anone!  So  that  Glugg, 
^<'/  the  poor  one,  in  that  limbopool  which  was  his  subnesciousness 

L  [P^  he  could  scares  of  all  knotknow  whither  his  morrder  had  bourst 
a  blabber  or  if  the  vogalstones  that  hit  his  tynpan  was  that  mearly 
his  skoll  missed  her.  Misty's  trompe  or  midst  his  flooting.^  Ah, 
ho!  Cicely,  awe! 

The  youngly  delightsome  frilles-in-pleyurs  are  now  showen 
drawen,  if  bud  one,  or,  if  in  florileague,  drawens  up  consociately 
at  the  hinder  sight  of  their  commoner  guardian.  Her  boy  fiend  or 
theirs,  if  they  are  so  plurielled,  cometh  up  as  a  trapadour,  sinking 
how  he  must  fand  for  himself  by  gazework  what  their  colours 
wear  as  they  are  all  showen  drawens  up.  Tireton,  cacheton,  tire- 
ton,  ba!  Doth  that  not  satisfy  youth,  sir.'^  Quanty  purty  bellas, 
here,  Madama  Lifay!  And  what  are  you  going  to  charm  them  to, 
Madama,  do  say.^  Cinderynelly  angled  her  slipper;  it  was  cho 
cliiny  yet  braught  her  a  groom.  He  will  angskt  of  them  from  their 
commoner  guardian  at  next  lineup  (who  is  really  the  rapier  of  the 
two  though  tliother  brother  can  hold  his  own,  especially  for  he 
bandished  it  with  his  hand  the  hold  time,  mamain,  a  simply  gra- 
cious: Mi,  O  la!),  and  reloose  that  thong  off  his  art:  Hast  thou  feel 
liked  carbunckley  ones?  Apun  which  his  poohoor  pricoxity  theirs 

224 


■ 

L 


is  a  little  tittertit  of  hilarity  (Lad-o'-me-soul  I  Lad-o'-me-soul, 
see!)  and  the  wordchary  is  atvoiced  ringsoundinly  by  their  toots 
ensembled,  though  not  meaning  to  be  clever,  but  just  with  a  shrug 
of  their  hips  to  go  to  troy  and  harff  a  freak  at  himself  by  all  that 
story  to  the  ulstramarines.  Otherwised,  holding  their  noises, 
they  insinuate  quiet  private,  Ni,  he  make  peace  in  his  preaches 
and  play  with  esteem. 
Warewolff!  Olff!  Toboo! 

So  olff  for  his  topheetuck  the  ruck  made  raid,  aslick  aslegs 
would  run;  and  he  ankered  on  his  hunkers  with  the  belly  belly 
prest.  Asking:  What's  my  muffinstuffinaches  for  these  times?  To 
weat:  Breath  and  bother  and  whatarcurss.  Then  breath  more 
bother  and  more  whatarcurss.  Then  no  breath  no  bother  but  wor-  , 
rawarrawurms.  And  Shim  shallave  shome.  f^-^  m    </%'^-^  i^^^ 

As  Rigagnolina  to  Mountagnone,  what  she  meaned  he  could 
not  can.  All  she  meaned  was  golten  sylvup,  all  she  meaned  was 
some  Knight's  ploung  jamn.  It's  driving  her  dafFt  like  he's  so 
dumnb.  If  he'd  lonely  talk  instead  of  only  gawk  as  thought  yate- 
man  hat  stuck  hits  stick  althrough  his  spokes  and  if  he  woold  nut 
wolly  so!  Hee.  Speak,  sweety  bird!  Mitzymitzy!  Though  I  did 
ate  tough  turf  I'm  not  the  bogdoxy. 

—  Have  you  monbreamstone? 

—  No. 

—  Or  Hellfeuersteyn? 

—  No. 

—  Or  Van  Diemen's  coral  pearl? 

—  No. 

He  has  lost. 

Off  to  clutch,  Glugg!  Forwhat!  Shape  your  reres,  Glugg!  /'^ -^^^ 
Foreweal!  Ring  we  round.  Chuff!  Fairwell!  Chuffchuff's  inners  -  f/. , 
even.  All's  rice  with  their  whorl! 

Yet,  ah  tears,  who  can  her  mater  be?  She's  promised  he'd  eye 
her.  To  try  up  her  pretti.  But  now  it's  so  longed  and  so  fared  and 
so  forth.  Jerry  for  jauntings.  Alabye!  Fled. 

The  flossies  all  and  mossies  all  they  drooped  upon  her  draped 
brimfall.  The  bowknots,  the  showlots,  they  wilted  into  woeblots. 

225 


The  pearlagraph,  the  pearlagraph,  knew  whitchly  whether  to  weep 
or  laugh.  For  always  down  in  Carolinas  lovely  Dinahs  vaunt  their 
view. 

Poor  Isa  sits  a  glooming  so  gleaming  in  the  gloaming;  the  tin- 
celles  a  touch  tarnished  wind  no  lovelinoise  awound  her  swan's. 
Hey,  lass!  Woefear  gleam  she  so  glooming,  this  pooripathete  I 
solde?  Her  beauman's  gone  of  a  cool.  Be  good  enough  to  symper- 
ise.  If  he's  at  anywhere  she's  therefor  to  join  him.  If  it's  to  no- 
where she's  going  to  too.  Buf  if  he'll  go  to  be  a  son  to  France's 
she'll  stay  daughter  of  Clare.  Bring  tansy,  throw  myrtle,  strew 
rue,  rue,  rue.  She  is  fading  out  like  Journee's  clothes  so  you  can't 
see  her  now.  Still  we  know  how  Day  the  Dyer  works,  in  dims 
and  deeps  and  dusks  and  darks.  And  among  the  shades  that  Eve's 
now  wearing  she'll  meet  anew  fiancy,  tryst  and  trow.  Mammy 
was,  Mimmy  is,  Minuscoline's  to  be.  In  the  Dee  dips  a  dame  and 
the  dame  desires  a  demselle  but  the  demselle  dresses  dolly  and 
the  dolly  does  a  dulcydamble.  The  same  renew.  For  though 
she's  unmerried  she'll  after  truss  up  and  help  that  hussyband  how 
to  hop.  Hip  it  and  trip  it  and  chirrub  and  sing.  Lord  Chuffy's  sky 
sheraph  and  Glugg's  got  to  swing. 

So  and  so,  toe  by  toe,  to  and  fro  they  go  round,  for  they  are  the 
ingelles,  scattering  nods  as  girls  who  may,  for  they  are  an  angel's 
garland. 

Catchmire  stockings,  libertyed  garters,  shoddyshoes,  quicked 
out  with  selver.  Pennyfair  caps  on  pinnyfore  frocks  and  a  ring  on 
her  fomefing  finger.  And  they  leap  so  looply,  looply,  as  they  link 
to  light.  And  they  look  so  loovely,  loovelit,  noosed  in  a  nuptious 
night.  Withasly  glints  in.  Andecoy  giants  out.  They  ramp  it  a 
little,  a  lessle,  a  lissle.  Then  rompride  round  in  rout. 

Say  them  all  but  tell  them  apart,  cadenzando  coloratura!  R  is 
Rubretta  and  A  is  Arancia,  Y  is  for  Yilla  and  N  for  greeneriN.  B 
is  Boyblue  with  odalisque  O  while  W  waters  the  fleurettes  of  no- 
vembrance.  Though  they're  all  but  merely  a  schoolgirl  yet  these 
way  went  they.  I'  th'  view  o'  th'avignue  dancing  goes  entrancing 
roundly.  Miss  Oodles  of  Anems  before  the  Luvium  doeslike.  So. 
And  then  again  doeslike.  So.  And  miss  Endles  of  Eons  efter  Dies 

226 


of  Eirae  doeslike.  So.  And  then  again  doeslike.  So.  The  many 
wiles  of  Winsure. 

The  grocer's  bawd  she  slips  her  hand  in  the  haricot  bag,  the 
lady  in  waiting  sips  her  sup  from  the  paraffin  can,  Mrs  Wildhare 
Quickdoctor  belts  her  skelts  up  the  casuaway  the  flasht  instinct 
she  herds  if  a  tinkle  of  tunder,  the  widow  Megrievy  she  knits  cats' 
cradles,  this  bountiful  actress  leashes  a  harrier  under  her  tongue, 
and  here's  the  girl  who  she's  kneeled  in  coldfashion  and  she's  told 
her  priest  (spt!)  she's  pot  on  a  chap  (chp!)  and  this  lass  not  least, 
this  rickissime  woman,  who  she  writes  foot  fortunes  money  times 
over  in  the  nursery  dust  with  her  capital  thumb.  Buzz.  All  run- 
away sheep  bound  back  bopeep,  trailing  their  teenes  behind 
them.  And  these  ways  wend  they.  And  those  ways  went  they. 
Winnie,  Olive  and  Beatrice,  Nelly  and  Ida,  Amy  and  Rue.  Here 
they  come  back,  all  the  gay  pack,  for  they  are  the  florals,  from 
foncey  and  pansey  to  papavere's  blush,  foresake-me-nought, 
while  there's  leaf  there's  hope,  with  primtim's  ruse  and  marry- 
may's  blossom,  all  the  flowers  of  the  ancelles'  garden. 

But  vicereversing  thereout  from  those  palms  of  perfection  to 
anger  arbour,  treerack  monatan,  scroucely  out  of  scout  of  ocean, 
virid  with  woad,  what  tornaments  of  complementary  rages  rocked 
the  divlun  from  his  punchpoll  to  his  tummy's  shentre  as  he  dis- 
plaid  all  the  oathword  science  of  his  visible  disgrace.  He  was 
feeling  so  funny  and  floored  for  the  cue,  all  over  which  girls  as 
he  don't  know  whose  hue.  If  goosseys  gazious  would  but  fain 
smile  him  a  smile  he  would  be  fondling  a  praise  he  ate  some  nice 
bit  of  fluff".  But  no  geste  reveals  the  unconnouth.  They're  all 
odds  against  him,  the  beasties.  Scratch.  Start. 

He  dove  his  head  into  Wat  Murrey,  gave  Stewart  Ryall  a  puck 
on  the  plexus,  wrestled  a  hurry-come-union  with  the  Gillie  Beg, 
wiped  all  his  sinses,  martial  and  menial,  out  of  Shrove  Sundy 
MacFearsome,  excremuncted  as  freely  as  any  frothblower  into 
Maclsaac,  had  a  belting  bout,  chaste  to  chaste,  with  McAdoo 
about  nothing  and,  childhood's  age  being  aye  the  shameleast,  tel 
a  Tartaran  tastarin  toothsome  tarrascone  tourtoun,  vestimentiv- 
orous  chlamydophagian,  imbretellated  himself  for  any  time  un- 

227 


tellable  with  what  hung  over  to  the  Machonochie  Middle  from 
the  MacSiccaries  of  the  Breeks.  Home! 

Allwhile,  moush  missuies  from  mungy  monsie,  preying  in 
his  mind,  son  of  Everallin,  within  himself,  he  swure.  Macnoon 
maggoty  mag!  Cross  of  a  coppersmith  bishop!  He  would  split. 
He  do  big  squeal  like  holy  Trichepatte.  Seek  hells  where  from 
yank  islanders  the  petriote's  absolation.  Mocknitza!  Genik!  He 
take  skiff  come  first  dagrene  day  overwide  tumbler,  rough  and 
dark,  till  when  bow  of  the  shower  show  of  the  bower  with  three 
shirts  and  a  wind,  pagoda  permettant,  crookolevante,  the  bruce, 
the  coriolano  and  the  ignacio.  From  prudals  to  the  secular  but 
from  the  cumman  to  the  nowter.  Byebye,  Brassolis,  Pm  breaving! 
Our  war,  Dully  Gray!  A  conansdream  of  lodascircles,  he  here 
schlucefinis.  Gelchasser  no  more!  Mischnary  for  the  minestrary 
to  all  the  sems  of  Aram.  Shimach,  eon  of  Era.  Mum's  for's 
maxim,  ban's  for's  book  and  Dodgesome  Dora  for  hedgehung 
sheolmastress.  And  Unkel  Silanse  coach  in  diligence.  Discon- 
nection of  the  succeeding.  He  wholehog  himself  for  carberry 
banishment  care  of  Pencylmania,  Bretish  Armerica,  to  melt  Mrs 
Gloria  of  the  Bunkers'  Trust,  recorporated,  (prunty!)  by  meteo- 
romancy  and  linguified  heissrohgin,  quit  to  hail  a  hurry  laracor 
and  catch  the  Paname-Turricum  and  regain  that  absendee  tarry 
easty,  his  citta  immediata,  by  an  alley  and  detour  with  farecard 
awailable  getrennty  years.  Right  for  Rovy  the  Roder.  From  the 
safe  side  of  distance!  Libera,  nostalgia!  Beate  Laurentie  O'Tuli, 
Euro  pra  nobis!  Every  monk  his  own  cashel  where  every  little 
ligger  is  his  own  liogotenente  with  inclined  jambs  in  full  purview 
to  his  pronaose  and  to  the  deretane  at  his  reredoss.  Fuisfinister, 
fuyerescaper!  He  would,  with  the  greatest  of  ease,  before  of 
weighting  midhook,  by  dear  home  trashold  on  the  raging  canal, 
for  othersites  of  Jorden,  (heave  a  hevy,  waterboy!)  make  one 
of  hissens  with  a  knockonacow  and  a  chow  collegions  and  fire 
off,  gheol  ghiomal,  foull  subustioned  mullmud,  his  farced  epistol 
to  the  hibruws.  From  Cernilius  slomtime  prepositus  of  Toumaria 
to  the  clutch  in  Anteach.  Salvo!  Ladigs  and  jointuremen!  No  more 
turdenskaulds!  Free  leaves  for  ebribadies!  All  tinsammon  in  the 

228 


1 


r 


yord!  With  harm  and  aches  till  farther  alters!  Wild  primates  not 
stop  him  frem  at  rearing  a  writing  in  handy  antics.  Nom  de 
plume/  Gout  strap  Fenlanns!  And  send  Jarge  for  Mary  Ink- 
lenders!  And  daunt  you  logh  if  his  vineshanky's  schwemmy! 
For  he  is  the  general,  make  no  mistake  in  he.  He  is  General 
Jinglesome. 

Go  in  for  scnbenery  with  the  satiety  of  arthurs  in  S.P.Q.R.ish 
and  inform  to  the  old  sniggering  publicking  press  and  its  nation 
of  sheepcojpers  about  the  whole  plighty  troth  between  them,  ma- 
lady of  milady  made  melodi  of  malodi,  she,  the  lalage  of  lyon- 
esses,  and  him,  her  knave  arrant.  To  Wildrose  La  Gilligan  from 
Croppy  Crowhore.  For  all  within  crystal  range. 

Ukalepe.  Loathers'  leave.  Had  Days.  Nemo  in  Patria.  The 
Luncher  Out.  Skilly  and  Carubdish.  A  Wondering  Wreck.  From 
the  Mermaids'  Tavern.  Bullyfamous.  Naughtsycalves.  Mother  of 
Misery.  Walpurgas  Nackt. 

Maleesh!  He  would  bare  to  un tired  world  of  Leimunconon- 
nulstria  (and  what  a  strip  poker  globbtrottel  they  pairs  would 
looks!)  how  wholefallows,  his  gufFer,  the  Sabbatarian  (might 
faction  split  his  beard!),  he  too  had  a  great  big  oh  in  the 
megafundum  of  his  tomashunders  and  how  her  Lettyshape,  his 
gummer,  that  congealed  sponsar,  she  had  never  cessed  at  waking 
makers  among  the  jemassons  since  the  cluft  that  meataxe  delt 
her  made  her  microchasm  as  gap  as  down  low.  So  they  fished 
in  the  kettle  and  fought  free  and  if  she  bit  his  tailibout  all  hat 
tiffin  for  thea.  He  would  jused  sit  it  all  write  down  just  as  he 
would  jused  set  it  up  all  writhefully  rate  in  blotch  and  void, 
yielding  to  no  man  in  hymns  ignorance,  seeing  how  heartsilly 
sorey  he  was,  owning  to  the  condrition  of  his  bikestool.  And, 
reading  off  his  fleshskin  and  writing  with  his  quillbone,  fillfull 
ninequires  with  it  for  his  auditers,  Caxton  and  Pollock,  a  most 
moraculous  jeeremyhead  sindbook  for  all  the  peoples,  under  the 
presidency  of  the  suchess  of  sceaunonsceau,  a  hadtobe  heldin, 
thoroughly  enjoyed  by  many  so  meny  on  block  at  Boyrut  season 
and  for  their  account  ottorly  admired  by  her  husband  in  sole  in- 
timacy, about  whose  told  his  innersense  and  the  grusomehed's 

229 


yoeureeke  of  his  spectrescope  and  why  he  was  off  colour  and  how 
he  was  ambodied  upon  by  the  very  spit  of  himself,  first  on  the 
cheekside  by  Michelangelo  and,  besouns  thats,  over  on  the  owld 
jowly  side  by  Bill  C.  Babby,  and  the  suburb's  formule  why  they 
provencials  drollo  eggspilled  him  out  of  his  homety  dometry  nar- 
rowedknee  domum  (osco  de  basco  de  pesco  de  bisco!)  because 
all  his  creature  comfort  was  an  omulette  finas  erbas  in  an  ark  finis 
orbe  and,  no  master  how  mustered,  mind  never  mend,  he  could 
neither  swuck  in  nonneither  swimp  in  the  flood  of  cecialism  and 
the  best  and  schortest  way  of  blacking  out  a  caughtalock  of  all 
the  sorrors  of  Sexton  until  he  would  accoster  her  coume  il  fou  in 
teto-dous  as  a  wagoner  would  his  mudheeldy  wheesindonk  at 
their  trist  in  Parisise  after  tourments  of  tosend  years,  bread  cast 
out  on  waters,  making  goods  at  mutuurity,  Mondamoiseau  of 
Casanuova  and  Mademoisselle  from  Armentieres.  Neblonovi's 
Nivonovio!  Nobbio  and  Nuby  in  ennoviacion!  Occitantitempoli ! 
He  would  si  through  severalls  of  sanctuaries  maywhatmay  might- 
whomight  so  as  to  meet  somewhere,  if  produced,  on  a  demi  pans- 
sion  for  his  whole  lofetime,  payment  in  goo  to  slee  music  and 
poisonal  comfany,  following  which,  like  Ipsey  Secumbe,  when  he 
fingon  to  foil  the  fluter,  she  could  have  all  the  g.  s.  M.  she  moo- 
hooed  after  fore  and  rickwards  to  herslF,  including  science  of 
sonorous  silence,  while  he,  being  brung  up  on  soul  butter,  have 
recourse  of  course  to  poetry.  With  tears  for  his  coronaichon, 
such  as  engines  weep.  Was  liffe  worth  leaving.'^  Nej ! 

Tholedoth,  treetrene!  Zokrahsing,  stone!  Arty,  reminiscen- 
sitive,  at  bandstand  finale  on  grand  carriero,  dreaming  largesse 
of  lifesighs  over  early  lived  offs — all  old  Sators  of  the  Sowsceptre 
highly  nutritius  family  histrionic,  genitricksling  with  Avus  and 
Avia,  that  simple  pair,  and  descendant  down  on  veloutypads  by  a 
vuncular  process  to  Nurus  and  Noverca,  those  notorious  nepotists, 
circumpictified  in  their  sobrine  census,  patriss  all  of  them  by  the 
glos  on  their  germane  faces  and  their  socerine  eyes  like  transparents 
of  vitricus,  patruuts  to  a  man,  the  archimade  levirs  of  his  ekonome 
world.  Remember  thee,  castle  throwen.'^  Ones  propsperups  treed, 
now  stohong  baroque.  And  oil  paint  use  a  pumme  if  yell  trace 

230 


me  there  title  to  where  was  a  hovel  not  a  havel  (the  first  rattle  of 
his  juniverse)  with  a  tingtumtingling  and  a  next,  next  and  next 
(gin  a  paddy?  got  a  petty?  gussies,  gif  it  ope?),  while  itch  ish 
shome. 

—  My  Gody  alas,  that  dear  olt  tumtum  home 
