one  clean  turv):  Firstnighter ^  Informer^  Old  Fruity  Yellow  Whigger, 
Wheatears,  Goldy  Gelt,  Bogside  Beauty ,  Yass  Were  Had  His 
Badannas^  York's  Porker,  Funnyface^  At  Baggottys  Bend  He 
Bumped,  Grease  with  the  Butter,  Opendoor  Ospices,  Cainandabler, 
Ireland's  Eighth  Wonderful  Wonder,  Beat  My  Price,  Godsoilman, 
Moonface  the  Murderer,  Hoary  Hairy  Hoax,  Midnight  Sunburst, 
Remove  that  Bible,  Hebdromadary  Publocation,  Tummer  the  Lame 
the  Tyrannous^  Blau  Clay,  Tight  before  Teatime^  Read  Your 
Pantojoke,  Acoustic  Disturbance^  Thinks  He's  Gobblasst  the  Good 
Dook  of  Ourguile,  W.D's  Grace  ^  Gibbering  Bayamouth  of  Dublin^ 
His  Farther  was  a  Mund^ucker  and  She  had  him  in  a  Growler^ 
Burnham  and  Bailey^  Artist^  Unworthy  of  the  Homely  Protestant 
Religion^  Terry  Cotter^  You  re  Welcome  to  Waterfood^  signed  the 
Ribbonmen^  Lobsterpot  Lardling^  All  for  Arthur  of  this  Town, 
Hooshed  the  Cat  from  the  Bacon^  Leathertogs  Donald,  The  Ace 
and  Deuce  of  Paupering^  O'Reilly  s  Delights  to  Kiss  the  Man 
behind  the  Borrel^  Magogagog^  Swad  Puddlefoot^  Gouty  Ghiheline^ 
Loose  Luther^  Hatches  Cocks'  Eggs,  Muddle  the  Plan,  Luck  before 
Wedlock,  I  Divorce  Thee  Husband,  Tanner  and  a  Make,  Go  to 
Hellena  or  Come  to  Connies^  Piobald  Puffpuff  His  Bride^  Purged 
out  of  Burke' Sj  He's  None  of  Me  Causin^  Barebarean^  Peculiar 
Person,  Grunt  Owl's  Facktotem^  Twelve  Months  Aristocrat, 
Lycanthrope,  Flunkey  Beadle  Vamps  the  Tune  Letting  on  He's 
Loney,  Thunder  and  Turf  Married  into  Clandorf  Left  Boot  Sent 
on  Approval^  Cumberer  of  Lord's  Holy  Ground^  Stodge  Arschmann^ 
Awnt  Yukcy  Tommy  Furlong's  Pet  Plagues^  Archdukon  Cabbanger^ 
Last  Past  the  Post^  Kennealey  Won't  Tell  Thee  off  Nancy's  Gown, 

71 


Scuttle  to  Cover y  Salary  Grab,  Andy  Mac  Noon  in  Annie  s  Room, 
Awl  Out,  Twitchbratschballs^  Bombard  Street  Bester^  Sublime 
Porter,  A  Ban  for  Le  King  of  the  Burgaans  and  a  Bom  for  Ye  Sur 
of  all  the  RuttledgeSj  O'Phelim's  Cutprice,  And  at  Number  Wan 
Wan  Wan,  What  He  Done  to  Castlecostello,  Sleeps  with  Feathers 
end  Ropes,  It  is  Known  who  Sold  Horace  the  Rattler,  Enclosed 
find  the  Sons  of  Fingal,  Swayed  in  his  Falling,  Wants  a  Wife  and 
Forty  of  Them^  Let  Him  Do  the  Fair,  Apeegeequanee  Chimmuck, 

Plowp  Goes  his  Whastle,  Ruin  of  the  Small  Trader,  He  

Milking  honey beaverbrooker,  Vee  was  a  Vindner,  Sower  Rapes, 
Armenian  Atrocity,  Sickfish  Belly  up,  Edomite,  —  'Man  Devoyd  of 
the  Commoner  Characteristics  of  an  Irish  Nature,  Bad  Humborg, 
Hraabhraab,  Coocoohandler,  Dirt,  Miching  Daddy,  Born  Burst  Feet 
Foremost,  Woolworth's  Worst,  Easyathic  Phallus  aphis  t,  Guiltey- 
pigs  Bastard,  Fast  in  the  Barrel,  Boose  in  the  Bed,  Mister  Fatmate, 
In  Custody  of  the  Polis,  BoawwlVs  Alocutionist,  Deposed,  but  anar- 
chistically  respectsful  of  the  liberties  of  the  noninvasive  individual, 
did  not  respond  a  solitary  wedgeword  beyond  such  sedentarity, 
though  it  was  as  easy  as  kissanywhere  for  the  passive  resistant  in 
the  booth  he  was  in  to  reach  for  the  hello  gripes  and  ring  up  Kim- 
mage  Outer  17.67,  because,  as  the  fundamentalist  explained,  when 
at  last  shocked  into  speech,  touchin  his  woundid  feelins  in  the 
fuchsiar  the  dominican  mission  for  the  sowsealist  potty  was  on  at 
the  time  and  he  thought  the  rowmish  devowtion  known  as  the 
howly  rowsary  might  reeform  ihm,  Gonn.  That  more  than 
considerably  unpleasant  bullocky  before  he  rang  off  drunkishly 
pegged  a  few  glatt  stones,  all  of  a  size,  by  way  of  final  mocks 
for  his  grapes,  at  the  wicket  in  support  of  his  words  that  he  was 
not  guilphy  but,  after  he  had  so  slaunga  vollayed,  reconnoi- 
tring through  his  semisubconscious  the  seriousness  of  what  he 
might  have  done  had  he  really  polished  off  his  terrible  intentions 
finally  caused  him  to  change  the  bawling  and  leave  downg  the 
whole  grumus  of  brookpebbles  pangpung  and,  having  sobered 
up  a  bit,  paces  his  groundould  diablen  lionndub,  the  flay  the 
flegm,  the  floedy  fleshener,  (purse,  purse,  pursyfurse,  I'll  splish 
the  splume  of  them  all!)  this  backblocks  boor  bruskly  put  out 

72 


1^ '        d  (i.  a 


his  langwedge  and  quite  quit  the  paleologic  scene,  telling  how 
by  his  selfdenying  ordnance  he  had  left  Hyland  on  the  dissenting 
table,  after  exhorting  Earwicker  or,  in  slightly  modified  phrase- 
ology, Messrs  or  Missrs  Earwicker,  Seir,  his  feminisible  nameof 
multitude,  to  cocoa  come  outside  to  Mockerloo  out  of  that  for 
the  honour  of  Crumlin,  with  his  broody  old  flishguds,  Gog's 
curse  to  thim,  so  as  he  could  brianslog  and  burst  him  all  dizzy, 
you  go  bail,  like  Potts  Fracture  did  with  Keddle  Flatnose  and 
nobodyatall  with  Wholyphamous  and  build  rocks  over  him,  or 
if  he  didn't,  for  two  and  thirty  straws,  be  Cacao  Campbell,  he 
didn't  know  what  he  wouldn't  do  for  him  nor  nobody  else  no- 
more  nor  him  after  which,  batell  martell,  a  brisha  a  milla  a  stroka 
a  boola,  so  the  rage  of  Malbruk,  playing  on  the  least  change  of 
his  manjester's  voice,  the  first  heroic  couplet  from  the  fuguall 
tropical.  Opus  Elf,  Thortytoe:  My  schemes  into  abeyance  for  This 
time  has  had  to  fall:  they  bit  goodbyte  to  their  thumb  and,  his 
bandol  eer  his  solgier,  dripdropdrap  on  pool  or  poldier,  wishing 
the  loff  a  falladelfian  in  the  morning,  proceeded  with  a  Hubble- 
forth  slouch  in  his  slips  backwords  {Et  CurHelil)  in  the  directions 
of  the  duff  and  demb  institutions  about  ten  or  eleven  hundred 
years  lurch  away  in  the  moonshiny  gorge  of  Patself  on  the  Bach. 
Adyoe! 

And  thus,  with  this  rochelly  exetur  of  Bully  Acre,  came  to 
close  that  last  stage  in  the  siegings  round  our  archicitadel  which 
we  would  like  to  recall,  if  old  Nestor  Alexis  would  wink  the 
worth  for  us,  as  Bar-le-Duc  and  Dog-an-Doras  and  Bangen-op- 
Zoom. 

Yed  he  med  leave  to  many  a  door  beside  of  Oxmanswold  for 
so  witness  his  chambered  cairns  a  cloudletlitter  silent  that  are  at 
browse  up  hill  and  down  coombe  and  on  eolithostroton,  at 
Howth  or  at  Coolock  or  even  at  Enniskerry,  a  theory  none  too 
rectiline  of  the  evaluation  of  human  society  and  a  testament  of 
the  rocks  from  all  the  dead  unto  some  the  living.  Olivers  lambs 
we  do  call  them,  skatterlings  of  a  stone,  and  they  shall  be  ga- 
thered unto  him,  their  herd  and  paladin,  as  nubilettes  to  cumule, 
in  that  day  hwen,  same  the  lightning  lancer  of  Azava  Arthur- 

73 


honoured  (some  Finn,  some  Finn  avantl),  he  skall  wake  from 
earthsleep,  haught  crested  elmer,  in  his  valle  of  briers  of  Green- 
man's  Rise  O,  (lost  leaders  live!  the  heroes  return!)  and  o'er  dun 
and  dale  the  Wulverulverlord  (protect  us!)  his  mighty  horn  skall 
roll,  orland,  roll. 

For  in  those  deyes  his  Deyus  shall  ask  of  Allprohome  and 
call  to  himm:  Allprohome!  And  he  make  answer:  Add  some. 
Nor  wink  nor  wunk.  Animadiabolum^  mem  credidisd  mortuum? 
Silence  was  in  thy  faustive  halls,  O  Truiga,  when  thy  green 
woods  went  dry  but  there  will  be  sounds  of  manymirth  on  the 
night's  ear  ringing  when  our  pantriarch  of  Comestowntonobble 
gets  the  pullover  on  his  boots. 

Liverpoor.-^  Sot  a  bit  of  it!  His  braynes  cook  parritch,  his  pelt 
nassy,  his  heart's  adrone,  his  bluidstreams  acrawl,  his  puff  but  a 
piff,  his  extremeties  extremely  so:  Fengless,  Pawmbroke,  Chil- 
blaimend  and  Baldowl.  Humph  is  in  his  doge.  Words  weigh  no 
no  more  to  him  than  raindrips  to  Rethfemhim.  Which  we  all 
like.  Rain.  When  we  sleep.  Drops.  But  wait  until  our  sleeping. 
Drain.  Sdops. 


74 


As  the  lion  in  our  teargarten  remembers  the  nenuphars  of  his 
Nile  (shall  Ariuz  forget  Arioun  or  Boghas  the  baregams  of  the 
Marmarazalles  from  Marmeniere?)  it  may  be,  tots  wearsense  full 
a  naggin  in  twentyg  have  sigilposted  what  in  our  brievingbust, 
the  besieged  bedreamt  him  stil  and  solely  of  those  lililiths  un- 
deveiled  which  had  undone  him,  gone  for  age,  and  knew  not 
the  watchful  treachers  at  his  wake,  and  theirs  to  stay.  Fooi,  fooi, 
chamermissies !  Zeepyzoepy,  larcenlads!  Zijnzijn  Zijnzijn!  It  may 
be,  we  moest  ons  hasten  selves  te  declareer  it,  that  he  reglimmed? 
presaw?  the  fields  of  heat  and  yields  of  wheat  where  corngold 
Ysit?  shamed  and  shone.  It  may  be,  we  habben  to  upseek  a  bitty 
door  our  good  township's  courants  want  we  knew't,  that  with 
his  deepseeing  insight  (had  not  wishing  oftebeen  but  good  time 
wasted),  within  his  patriarchal  shamanah,  broadsteyne  'bove  citie 
(Twillby!  Twillby!)  he  conscious  of  enemies,  a  kingbilly  white- 
horsed  in  a  Finglas  mill,  prayed,  as  he  sat  pn  anxious  seat,  (kunt 
ye  neat  gift  mey  toe  bout  a  peer  saft  eyballds !)  during  that  three 
and  a  hellof  hours'  agony  of  silence,  ex  profundis  malorum^  and 
bred  with  unfeigned  charity  that  his  wordwounder  (an  engles  to 
the  teeth  who,  nomened  Nash  of  Girahash,  would  go  anyold  where 
in  the  weeping  world  on  his  mottled  belly  (the  rab,  the  kreepons- 
kneed!)  for  milk,  music  or  married  missusses)  might,  mercy  to 
providential  benevolence's  who  hates  prudencies'  astuteness,  un- 
fold into  the  first  of  a  distinguished  dynasty  of  his  posteriors, 

75 


blackfaced  connemaras  not  of  the  fold  but  elder  children  of  his 
household,  his  most  besetting  of  ideas  {pace  his  twolve  predama- 
nant  passions)  being  the  formation,  as  in  more  favoured  climes, 
where  the  Meadow  of  Honey  is  guestfriendly  and  the  Mountain 
of  Joy  receives,  of  a  truly  criminal  stratum,  Ham's  cribcracking 
yeggs,  thereby  at  last  eliminating  from  all  classes  and  masses  with 
directly  derivative  decasualisation:  sigarius  (sic!)  vindicat  urbes 
terrorum  (sicker!):  and  so,  to  mark  a  bank  taal  she  arter,  the 
obedience  of  the  citizens  elp  the  ealth  of  the  ole. 

Now  gode.  Let  us  leave  theories  there  and  return  to  here's  here. 
Now  hear.  'Tis  gode  again.  The  teak  coffin,  Pughglasspanelfitted, 
feets  to  the  east,  was  to  turn  in  later,  and  pitly  patly  near  the 
porpus,  materially  effecting  the  cause.  And  this,  liever,  is  the 
thinghowe.  Any  number  of  conservative  public  bodies,  through 
a  number  of  select  and  other  committees  having  power  to  add  to 
their  number,  before  voting  themselves  and  himself,  town,  port 
and  garrison,  by  a  fit  and  proper  resolution,  following  a  koorts 
order  of  the  groundwet,  once  for  all  out  of  plotty  existence,  as 
a  forescut,  so  you  maateskippey  might  to  you  cuttinrunner  on  a 
neuw  pack  of  klerds,  made  him,  while  his  body  still  persisted, 
their  present  of  a  protem  grave  in  Moyelta  of  the  best  Lough 
Neagh  pattern,  then  as  much  in  demand  among  misonesans  as 
the  Isle  of  Man  today  among  limniphobes.  Wacht  even !  It  was 
in  a  fairly  fishy  kettlekerry,  after  the  Fianna's  foreman  had  taken 
his  handful,  enriched  with  ancient  woods  and  dear  dutchy  deep- 
linns  mid  which  were  an  old  knoll  and  a  troutbeck,  vainyvain  of 
her  osiery  and  a  chatty  sally  with  any  Wilt  or  Walt  who  would 
ongle  her  as  Izaak  did  to  the  tickle  of  his  rod  and  watch  her 
waters  of  her  sillying  waters  of  and  there  now  brown  peater 
arripple  (may  their  quilt  gild  lightly  over  his  somnolulutent 
form!)  Whoforyou  lies  his  last,  by  the  wrath  of  Bog,  like  the 
erst  curst  Hun  in  the  bed  of  his  treubleu  Donawhu. 

Best.  This  wastohavebeen  underground  heaven,  or  mole's 
paradise  which  was  probably  also  an  inversion  of  a  phallopharos, 
intended  to  foster  wheat  crops  and  to  ginger  up  tourist  trade 
(its  architecht,  Mgr  Peurelachasse,  having  been  obcaecated  lest 

76 


he  should  petrifake  suchanevver  while  the  contractors  Messrs 
T.  A.  Birkett  and  L.  O.  Tuohalls  were  made  invulnerably  vener- 
able) first  in  the  west,  our  misterbilder,  Castlevillainous,  openly 
damned  and  blasted  by  means  of  a  hydromine,  system,  Sowan  and 
Belting,  exploded  from  a  reinvented  T.N.T.  bombingpost  up 
ahoy  of  eleven  and  thirty  wingrests  (circiter)  to  sternbooard  out 
of  his  aerial  thorpeto,  Auton  Dynamon,  contacted  with  the  ex- 
pectant minefield  by  tins  of  improved  ammonia  lashed  to  her 
shieldplated  gunwale,  and  fused  into  tripupcables,  slipping 
through  tholse  and  playing  down  from  the  conning  tower  into 
the  ground  battery  fuseboxes,  all  differing  as  clocks  from  keys 
since  nobody  appeared  to  have  the  same  time  of  beard,  some 
saying  by  their  Oorlog  it  was  Sygstryggs  to  nine,  more  holding 
with  the  Ryan  vogt  it  was  Dane  to  pfife.  He  afterwards  whaan- 
ever  his  blaetther  began  to  fail  off  him  and  his  rough  bark  was 
wholly  husky  and,  stoop  by  stoop,  he  neared  it  (wouldmanspare !) 
carefully  lined  the  ferroconcrete  result  with  rotproof  bricks  and 
mortar,  fassed  to  fossed,  and  retired  beneath  the  heptarchy  of 
his  towerettes,  the  beauchamp,  byward,  bull  and  lion,  the  white, 
the  wardrobe  and  bloodied,  so  encouraging  (insteppen,  alls  als 
hats  beliefd!)  additional  useful  councils  public  with  hoofd  off- 
dealings  which  were  welholden  of  ladykants  te  huur  out  such  as  the 
Breeders'  Union,  the  Guild  of  Merchants  of  the  Staple  et,  a.u.c.  to 
present  unto  him  with  funebral  pomp,  over  and  above  that,  a  stone 
slab  with  the  usual  Mac  Pelah  address  of  velediction,  a  very  fair- 
worded  instance  of  falsemeaning  adamelegy:  We  have  done  ours 
gohellt  with  you,  Heer  Herewhippit,  overgiven  it,  skidoo! 

But  t'house  and  allaboardshoops  I  Show  coffins,  winding  sheets, 
goodbuy  bierchepes,  cinerary  urns,  liealoud  blasses,  snuffchests, 
poteentubbs,  lacrimal  vases,  hoodendoses,  reekwaterbeckers, 
breakmiddles,  zootzaks  for  eatlust,  including  upyourhealthing 
rookworst  and  meathewersoftened  forkenpootsies  and  for  that 
matter,  javel  also,  any  kind  of  inhumationary  brie  au  brae  for 
the  adornment  of  his  glasstone  honophreum,  would,  met  these 
trein  of  konditiens,  naturally  follow,  halas,  in  the  ordinary  course, 
enabling  that  roundtheworlder  wandelingswight,  did  suches  pass 

77 


him,  to  live  all  safeathomely  the  presenile  days  of  his  life  of 
opulence,  ancient  ere  decrepitude,  late  lents  last  lenience,  till 
stuffering  stage,  whaling  away  the  whole  of  the  while  (hypnos 
chilia  eonionf)  lethelulled  between  explosion  and  reexplosion 
(Donnaurwatteur !  Hunderthunder !)  from  grosskopp  to  megapod, 
embalmed,  of  grand  age,  rich  in  death  anticipated. 

But  abide  Zeit's  sumonserving,  rise  afterfall.  Blueblitzbolted 
from  there,  knowing  the  hingeworms  of  the  hallmirks  of  habita- 
tionlesness,  buried  burrowing  in  Gehinnon,  to  proliferate  through 
all  his  Unterwealth,  seam  by  seam,  sheol  om  sheol,  and  revisit 
our  Uppercrust  Sideria  of  Utilitarios,  the  divine  one,  the  hoar- 
der hidden  propaguting  his  plutorpopular  progeniem  of  pots  and 
pans  and  pokers  and  puns  from  biddenland  to  boughtenland,  the 
spearway  fore  the  spoorway. 

The  other  spring  offensive  on  the  heights  of  Abraham  may 
have  come  about  all  quite  by  accidence,  Foughtarundser  ffor 
Breedabrooda  had  at  length  presuaded  him  to  have  himself  to  be 
as  septuply  buried  as  the  murdered  Cian  in  Finntown),  had  not 
been  three  monads  in  his  watery  grave  (what  vigilantes  and  ridings 
then  and  spuitwyne  pledges  with  aardappel  frittling!)  when 
portrifaction,  dreyfussed  as  ever,  began  to  ramp,  ramp,  ramp,  the 
boys  are  parching.  A  hoodenwinkle  gave  the  signal  and  a  bless- 
ing paper  freed  the  flood.  Why  did  the  patrizien  make  him  scares 
with  his  gruntens?  Because  the  druiven  were  muskating  at  the 
door.  From  both  Celtiberian  camps  (granting  at  the  onset  for  the 
sake  of  argument  that  men  on  the  two  sides  in  New  South  Ire- 
land and  Vetera  Uladh,  bluemin  and  pillfaces,  during  the  ferment 
With  the  Pope  or  On  the  Pope,  had,  moors  or  letts,  grant  ideas, 
grunted)  all  conditions,  poor  cons  and  dives  mor,  each,  of  course, 
on  the  purely  doffensive  since  the  eternals  were  owlwise  on  their 
side  every  time,  were  drawn  toowards  their  Bellona's  Black 
Bottom,  once  Woolwhite's  Waltz  (Ohiboh,  how  becrimed, 
becursekissed  and  bedumbtoit!)  some  for  want  of  proper  feeding 
in  youth,  others  already  caught  in  the  honourable  act  of  slicing 
careers  for  family  and  carvers  in  conjunction;  and,  if  emaciated 
nough,  the  person  garrotted  may  have  suggested  to  whomever  he 

78 


I 


took  the  ham  of,  the  plain  being  involved  in  darkness,  low  cirque 
waggery,  nay,  even  the  first  old  wugger  of  himself  in  the  flesh, 
whiggissimus  incarnadined,  when  falsesighted  by  the  ifsuchhewas 
bully  on  the  hill  for  there  had  circulated  freely  fairly  among  his 
opposition  the  feeling  that  in  so  hibernating  Massa  Ewacka,  who, 
previous  to  that  demidetached  life,  had  been  known  of  barmi- 
cidal  days,  cook  said,  between  soups  and  savours,  to  get  outside 
his  own  length  of  rainbow  trout  and  taerts  atta  tarn  as  no  man 
of  woman  born,  nay  could,  like  the  great  crested  brebe,  devour 
his  threescoreten  of  roach  per  lifeday,  ay,  and  as  many  minnow  a 
minute  (the  big  mix,  may  Gibbet  choke  him!)  was,  like  the  salmon 
of  his  ladderleap  all  this  time  of  totality  secretly  and  by  suckage 
feeding  on  his  own  misplaced  fat. 

Ladies  did  not  disdain  those  pagan  ironed  times  of  the  first 
city  (called  after  the  ugliest  Danadune)  when  a  frond  was  a  friend 
inneed  to  carry,  as  earwigs  do  their  dead,  their  soil  to  the  earth- 
ball  where  indeeth  we  shall  calm  decline,  our  legacy  unknown. 
Venuses  were  gigglibly  temptatrix,  vulcans  guffawably  eruptious 
and  the  whole  wives'  world  frockful  of  fickles.  Fact,  any  human 
inyon  you  liked  any  erenoon  or  efter  would  take  her  bare  godkin 
out,  or  an  even  pair  of  hem,  (lugod !  lugodoo !)  and  prettily  pray 
with  him  (or  with  em  even)  everyhe  to  her  taste,  long  for  luck, 
tapette  and  tape  petter  and  take  pettest  of  all.  (Tip !)  Wells  she'd 
woo  and  wills  she's  win  but  how  the  deer  knowed  where  she'd 
marry!  Arbour,  bucketroom,  caravan,  ditch.'^  Coach,  carriage, 
wheelbarrow,  dungcart.'^ 

Kate  Strong,  a  widow  (Tiptip !)  —  she  pulls  a  lane  picture  for 
us,  in  a  dreariodreama  setting,  glowing  and  very  vidual,  of  old 
dumplan  as  she  nosed  it,  a  homelike  cottage  of  elvanstone  with 
droppings  of  biddies,  stinkend  pusshies,  moggies'  duggies,  rotten 
witchawubbles,  festering  rubbages  and  beggars'  bullets,  if  not 
worse,  sending  salmofarious  germs  in  gleefully  through  the 
smithereen  panes  —  Widow  Strong,  then,  as  her  weaker  had 
turned  him  to  the  wall  (Tiptiptip!),  did  most  all  the  scavenging 
from  good  King  Hamlaugh's  gulden  dayne  though  her  lean 
besom  cleaned  but  sparingly  and  her  bare  statement  reads  that, 

79 


there  being  no  macadamised  sidetracks  on  those  old  nekropolitan 
nights  in,  barring  a  footbatter,  Bryant's  Causeway,  bordered 
with  speedwell,  white  clover  and  sorrel  a  wood  knows,  which 
left  off,  being  beaten,  where  the  plaintiff  was  struck,  she 
left  down,  as  scavengers,  who  will  be  scavengers  must,  her 
filthdump  near  the  Serpentine  in  Phornix  Park  (at  her  time  called 
Finewell's  Keepsacre  but  later  tautaubapptossed  Pat's  Purge), 
that  dangerfield  circling  butcherswood  where  fireworker  oh 
flaherty  engaged  a  nutter  of  castlemallards  and  ah  for  archer 
stunned's  turk,  all  over  which  fossil  footprints,  bootmarks, 
fingersigns,  elbowdints,  breechbowls,  a.  s.  o.  were  all  succes- 
sively traced  of  a  most  envolving  description.  What  subtler 
timeplace  of  the  weald  than  such  wolfsbelly  castrament  to  will 
hide  a  leabhar  from  Thursmen's  brandihands  or  a  loveletter, 
lostfully  hers,  that  would  be  lust  on  Ma,  than  then  when  ructions 
ended,  than  here  where  race  began:  and  by  four  hands  of  fore- 
thought the  first  babe  of  reconcilement  is  laid  in  its  last  cradle 
of  hume  sweet  hume.  Give  over  it!  And  no  more  of  it!  So  pass 
the  pick  for  child  sake!  O  men! 

For  hear  Allhighest  sprack  for  krischnians  as  for  propagana 
fidies  and  his  nuptial  eagles  sharped  their  beaks  of  prey:  and 
every  morphyl  man  of  us,  pome  by  pome,  falls  back  into  this 
terrine:  as  it  was  let  it  be,  says  he!  And  it  is  as  though  where 
Agni  araflammed  and  Mithra  monished  and  Shiva  slew  as  maya- 
mutras  the  obluvial  waters  of  our  noarchic  memory  withdrew, 
windingly  goharksome,  to  some  hastyswasty  timberman  torch- 
priest,  flamenfan,  the  ward  of  the  wind  that  lightened  the  fire  that 
lay  in  the  wood  that  Jove  bolt,  at  his  rude  word.  Posidonius 
O'Fluctuary!  Lave  that  bloody  stone  as  it  is!  What  are  you 
doing  your  dirty  minx  and  his  big  treeblock  way  up  your  path.'^ 
Slip  around,  you,  by  the  rare  of  the  ministers'!  And,  you,  take 
that  barrel  back  where  you  got  it,  Mac  Shane's,  and  go  the  way 
your  old  one  went,  Hatchettsbury  Road!  And  gish!  how  they 
gushed  away,  the  pennyfares,  a  whol6  school  for  scamper,  with 
their  sashes  flying  sish  behind  them,  all  the  little  pirlypettes! 
Issy-la-Chapelle!  Any  lucans,  please.'^ 

80 


j^rsJ^u^S  Cx^  ^*^^  ^"^^^    ^  SVi^J?-^^ 


Yes,  the  viability  of  vicinals  if  invisible  is  invincible.  And  we 
are  not  trespassing  on  his  corns  either.  Look  at  all  the  plotsch! 
Fluminian!  If  this  was  Hannibal's  walk  it  was  Hercules'  work. 
And  a  hungried  thousand  of  the  unemancipated  slaved  the  way. 
The  mausoleum  lies  behind  us  (O  Adgigasta,  muldpopulipaterl) 
and  there  are  milestones  in  their  cheadmilias  faultering  along 
the  tramestrack  by  Brahm  and  Anton  Hermes!  Per  omnibus 
secular  seekalarum.  Amain.  But  the  past  has  made jus_j^^^  present 
j)f  a  rhedarhoad.  So  more  boher  O'Connell!  Though  rainy- 
hidden,  you're  rhinohide.  And  if  he's  not  a  Romeo  you  may 
scallop  your  hat.  Wereupunder  in  the  fane  of  Saint  Fiacre!  Halte! 

It  was  hard  by  the  howe's  there,  plainly  on  this  disoluded  and  a 
buchan  cold  spot,  rupestric  then,  resurfaced  that  now  is,  that 
Luttrell  sold  if  Lautrill  bought,  in  the  saddle  of  the  Brennan's 
(now  Malpasplace?)  pass,  versts  and  versts  from  true  civilisation, 
not  where  his  dreams  top  their  traums  halt  (Beneathere !  Bena- 
there!)  but  where  livland  yontide  meared  with  the  wilde,  saltlea 
with  flood,  that  the  attackler,  a  cropatkin,  though  under  medium 
and  between  colours  with  truly  native  pluck,  engaged  the  Adver- 
sary who  had  more  in  his  eye  than  was  less  to  his  leg  but  whom  for 
plunder  sake,  he  mistook  in  the  heavy  rain  to  be  Oglethorpe  or 
some  other  ginkus.  Parr  aparrently,  to  whom  the  headandheel- 
less  chickenestegg  bore  some  Michelangiolesque  resemblance, 
making  use  of  sacrilegious  languages  to  the  defect  that  he  would 
challenge  their  hemosphores  to  exterminate  them  but  he  would 
cannonise  the  b  —  y  b  —  r's  life  out  of  him  and  lay  him  out 
contritely  as  smart  as  the  b  —  r  had  his  b  —  y  nightprayers 
said,  three  patrecknocksters  and  a  couplet  of  hellmuirries  {tout 
est  sacre  pour  un  sacreur^  femme  a  harhe  ou  homme-nourrice)  at  the 
same  time,  so  as  to  plugg  well  let  the  blubbywail  ghoats  out  of 
him,  catching  hoist  of  an  oblong  bar  he  had  and  with  which  he 
usually  broke  furnitures  he  rose  the  stick  at  him.  The  boarder 
incident  prerepeated  .igjlf.  The  pair  (whethertheywere  Nippo- 
luono  engaging  Wei-Ling-Taou  or  de  Razzkias  trying  to  recon- 
noistre  the  general  Boukeleff,  man  may  not  say),  struggled 
apairendy  for  some  considerable  time,  (the  cradle  rocking  equally 

8i 


<2. 


f 


L  ^'  to  one  and  oppositely  from  the  other  on  its  law  of  capture  and 
^  t/^  recapture),  under  the  All  In  rules  around  the  booksafe,  fighting 
like  purple  top  and  tipperuhry  Swede,  (Secremented  Servious  of 
the  Divine  Zeal !)  and  in  the  course  of  their  tussle  the  toller  man, 
who  had  opened  his  bully  bowl  to  beg,  said  to  the  miner  who 
was  carrying  the  worm  (a  handy  term  for  the  portable  distillery 
which  consisted  of  three  vats,  two  jars  and  several  bottles  though 
we  purposely  say  nothing  of  the  stiff,  both  parties  having  an 
interest  in  the  spirits):  Let  me  go,  Pautheen!  I  hardly  knew  ye. 
Later  on,  after  the  solstitial  pause  for  refleshmeant,  the  same 
man  (or  a  different  and  younger  him  of  the  same  ham)  asked  in 
the  vermicular  with  a  very  oggly  chew-chin-grin:  Was  six  vic- 
tolios  fifteen  pigeon  takee  offa  you,  tell  he  me,  stlongfella,  by 
picky-pocky  ten  to  foul  months  behindaside?  There  were  some 
further  collidabanter  and  severe  tries  to  convert  for  the  best  part 
of  an  hour  and  now  a  woden  affair  in  the  shape  of  a  webley  (we 
at  once  recognise  our  old  friend  Ned  of  so  many  illortemporate 
letters)  fell  from  the  intruser  who,  as  stuck  as  that  cat  to  that 
mouse  in  that  tube  of  that  christchurch  organ,  (did  the  imnage  of 
Girl  Cloud  Pensive  flout  above  them  light  young  charm,  in 
ribbons  and  pigtail?)  whereupon  became  friendly  and,  saying  not 
his  shirt  to  tear,  to  know  wanted,  joking  and  knobkerries  all 
aside  laying,  if  his  change  companion  who  stuck  still  to  the  in- 
vention of  his  strongbox,  with  a  tenacity  corrobberating  their 
mutual  tenitorial  rights,  happened  to  have  the  loots  change  of 
a  tenpound  crickler  about  him  at  the  moment,  addling  that  hap 
so,  he  would  pay  him  back  the  six  vies  odd,  do  you  see,  out  of 
that  for  what  was  taken  on  the  man  of  samples  last  Yuni  or  Yuly, 
do  you  follow  me,  Capn?  To  this  the  other,  Billi  with  the  Boule, 
who  had  mummed  and  mauled  up  to  that  (for  he  was  hesitency 
carried  to  excelcism)  rather  amusedly  replied:  Woowoo  would 
you  be  grossly  surprised.  Hill,  to  learn  that,  as  it  so  happens,  I 
honestly  have  not  such  a  thing  as  the  loo,  as  the  least  chance  of 
a  tinpanned  crackler  anywhere  about  me  at  the  present  moho- 
moment  but  I  believe  I  can  see  my  way,  as  you  suggest,  it 
being  Yuletide  or  Yuddanfest  and  as  it's  mad  nuts,  son,  for  you 

82 


: 


when  it's  hatter's  hares,  mon,  for  me,  to  advance  you  something 
like  four  and  sevenpence  between  hopping  and  trapping  which 
you  might  just  as  well  have,  boy  baches,  to  buy  J.  J.  and  S.  with. 
There  was  a  minute  silence  before  memory's  fire's  rekindling  and 
then.  Heart  alive!  Which  at  very  first  wind  of  gay  gay  and  whisk- 
wigs  wick's  ears  pricked  up,  the  starving  gunman,  strike  him 
pink,  became  strangely  calm  and  forthright  sware  by  all  his  lards 
porsenal  that  the  thorntree  of  sheol  might  ramify  up  his  Sheo- 
fon  to  the  lux  apointlex  but  he  would  go  good  to  him  suntime 
marx  my  word  fort,  for  a  chip  off  the  old  Flint,  (in  the  Nichtian 
glossery  which  purveys  aprioric  roots  for  aposteriorious  tongues 
this  is  nat  language  at  any  sinse  of  the  world  and  one  might  as 
fairly  go  and  kish  his  sprogues  as  fail  to  certify  whether  the 
wartrophy  eluded  at  some  lives  earlier  was  that  somethink  like  a 
jug,  to  what,  a  coctable)  and  remarxing  in  languidoily,  seemingly 
much  more  highly  pleased  than  tongue  could  tell  at  this  opening 
of  a  lifetime  and  the  foretaste  of  the  Dun  Bank  pearlmothers 
and  the  boy  to  wash  down  which  he  would  feed  to  himself  in 
the  Ruadh  Cow  at  Tallaght  and  then  into  the  Good  Woman  at 
Ringsend  and  after  her  inat  Conway's  Inn  at  Blackrock  and,  first 
to  fall,  cursed  be  all,  where  appetite  would  keenest  be,  atte, 
funeral  fare  or  fun  fain  real,  Adam  and  Eve's  in  Quantity  Street 
by  the  grace  of  gamy  queen  Tailte,  her  will  and  testament:  You 
stunning  little  southdowner!  I'd  know  you  anywhere,  Declaney, 
let  me  truthfully  tell  you  in  or  out  of  the  lexinction  of  life  and 
who  the  hell  else,  be  your  blanche  patch  on  the  boney  part! 
Goalball  I've  struck  this  daylit  dielate  night  of  nights,  by  golly! 
My  hat,  you  have  some  bully  German  grit,  sundowner!  He 
spud  in  his  faust  (axin);  he  toped  the  raw  best  (pardun);  he 
poked  his  pick  (a  tip  is  a  tap):  and  he  tucked  his  friend's  leave.  And, 
with  French  hen  or  the  portlifowlium  of  hastes  and  leisures,  about 
to  continue  that,  the  queer  mixture  exchanged  the  pax  in  embrace 
or  poghue  puxy  as  practised  between  brothers  of  the  same  breast, 
hillelulia,  killelulia,  allenalaw,  and,  having  ratified  before  the 
god  of  the  day  their  torgantruce  which  belittlers  have  schmall- 
kalled  the  treatyng  to  cognac,  turning  his  fez  menialstrait  in  the 

83 


direction  of  Moscas,  he  first  got  rid  of  a  few  mitsmillers  and 
hurooshoos  and  levanted  off  with  tubular  jurbulance  at  a  bull's 
run  over  the  assback  bridge,  spitting  his  teeths  on  rooths,  with  the 
seven  and  four  in  danegeld  and  their  humoral  hurlbat  or  other 
uncertain  weapon  of  lignum  vitaey  but  so  evermore  rhumanasant  of 
a  toboggan  poop,  picked  up  to  keep  some  crowplucking  ap- 
pointment with  some  rival  rialtos  anywheres  between  Pearidge 
and  the  Littlehorn  while  this  poor  delaney,  who  they  left  along 
with  the  confederate  fender  behind  and  who  albeit  ballsbluffed, 
bore  up  wonderfully  wunder  all  of  it  with  a  whole  number  of 
plumsized  contusiums,  plus  alasalah  bruised  coccyx,  all  over  him, 
reported  the  occurance  in  the  best  way  he  could,  to  the  flabber- 
gaze  of  the  whole  lab,  giving  the  Paddybanners  the  military 
salute  as  for  his  exilicy's  the  O'Daffy,  in  justifiable  hope  that, 
in  nobiloroman  review  of  the  hugely  sitisfactuary  conclusium 
of  their  negotiations  and  the  jugglemonkysh  agripment  dein- 
derivative,  some  lotion  or  fomentation  of  poppyheads  would  be 
jennerously  exhibited  to  the  parts,  at  the  nearest  watchhouse  in 
Vicar  Lane,  the  white  ground  of  his  face  all  covered  with  diagon- 
ally redcrossed  nonfatal  mammalian  blood  as  proofpositive  of  the 
seriousness  of  his  character  and  that  he  was  bleeding  in  self 
defience  (stanch  it!)  from  the  nostrils,  lips,  pavilion  and  palate, 
while  some  of  his  hitter's  hairs  had  been  pulled  off  his  knut's 
head  by  Colt  though  otherwise  his  allround  health  appeared  to 
be  middling  along  as  it  proved  most  fortunate  that  not  one  of 
the  two  hundred  and  six  bones  and  five  hundred  and  one  muscles 
in  his  corso  was  a  whit  the  whorse  for  her  whacking.  Herwho? 

Nowthen,  leaving  clashing  ash,  brawn  and  muscle  and  brass- 
made  to  oust  earthernborn  and  rockcrystal  to  wreck  isinglass  but 
wurming  along  gradually  for  our  savings  backtowards  mother- 
waters  so  many  miles  from  bank  and  Dublin  stone  (olympiading 
even  till  the  eleventh  dynasty  to  reach  that  thuddysickend  Ham- 
laugh)  and  to  the  question  of  honey's  unlawfully  obtaining  a 
pierced  paraflamme  and  claptrap  fireguard  there  crops  out  the 
still  more  salient  point  of  the  politish  leanings  and  town  pursuits 
of  our  forebeer.  El  Don  De  Dunelli,  (may  his  ship  thicked  stick 

84 


in  the  bottol  of  the  river  and  all  his  crewsers  stock  locked  in  the 
burral  of  the  seas !)  who,  when  within  the  black  of  your  toenail, 
sir,  of  being  mistakenly  ambushed  by  one  of  the  uddahveddahs, 
and  as  close  as  made  no  matter,  mam,  to  being  kayoed  offhand 
when  the  hyougono  heckler  with  the  Peter  the  Painter  wanted 
to  hole  him,  was  consistently  practising  the  first  of  the  primary 
and  imprescriptible  liberties  of  the  pacific  subject  by  circulating 
(be  British,  boys  to  your  bellybone  and  chuck  a  chum  a  chance!) 
alongst  one  of  our  umphrohibited  semitary  thrufahrts,  open  to 
buggy  and  bike,  to  walk,  Wellington  Park  road,  with  the  curb 
or  quaker's  quacknostrum  under  his  auxter  and  his  alpenstuck  in 
his  redhand,  a  highly  commendable  exercise,  or,  number  two  of 
our  acta  legidma  plebeia^  on  the  brink  (beware  to  baulk  a  man  at 
his  will!)  of  taking  place  upon  a  public  seat,  to  what,  bare  by 
Butt's,  mqsieasterly  (but  all  goes  west !)  of  blackpool  bridges,  as 
a  public  protest  and  naturlikevice,  without  intent  to  annoy  either, 
being  praisegood  thankfully  for  the  wrathbereaved  ringdove  and 
the  fearstung  boaconstrictor  and  all  the  more  right  jollywell 
pleased,  which  he  was,  at  having  other  people's  weather. 

But  to  return  to  the  atlantic  and  Phenitia  Proper.  As  if  that 
were  not  to  be  enough  for  anyone  but  little  headway,  if  any,  was 
made  in  solving  the  wasnottobe  crime  cunundrum  when  a  child 
of  Maam,  Festy  King,  of  a  family  long  and  honourably  associ- 
ated with  the  tar  and  feather  industries,  who  gave  an  address  in 
old  plomansch  Mayo  of  the  Saxons  in  the  heart  of  a  foulfamed 
potheen  district,  was  subsequently  haled  up  at  the  Old  Bailey 
on  the  calends  of  Mars,  under  an  incompatibly  framed  indictment 
of  both  the  counts  (from  each  equinoxious  points  of  view,  the  one 
fellow's  fetch  being  the  other  follow's  person)  that  is  to  see,  flying 
cushats  out  of  his  ouveralls  and  making  fesses  immodst  his  forces 
on  the  field.  Oyeh!  Oyeh!  When  the  prisoner,  soaked  in  methyl- 
ated, appeared  in  dry  dock,  appatently  ambrosiaurealised,  like 
Kersse's  Korduroy  Karikature,  wearing,  besides  stains,  rents  and 
patches,  his  fight  shirt,  straw  braces,  souwester  and  a  policeman's 
corkscrew  trowswers,  all  out  of  the  true  (as  he  had  purposely  torn 
up  all  his  cymtrymanx  bespokes  in  the  mamertime),  deposing  for 

85 


his  exution  with  all  the  fluors  of  sparse  in  the  royal  Irish  vocabulary 
how  the  whole  padderjagmartin  tripiezite  suet  and  all  the  sulfeit 
