listing  sisterwands.  Tubetube! 

His  handpalm  lifted,  his  handshell  cupped,  his  handsign  pointed, 
his  handheart  mated,  his  handaxe  risen,  his  handleaf  fallen. 
Helpsome  hand  that  holemost  heals !  What  is  het  holy !  It  gested. 

And  it  said: 

— Alo,  alass,  aladdin,  amobus!  Does  she  lag  soft  fall  means 
rest  down?  Shaun  yawned,  as  his  general  address  rehearsal, 
(that  was  antepropreviousday's  pigeons-in-a-pie  with  rough 
dough  for  the  carrier  and  the  hash-say-ugh  of  overgestern  pluzz 
the  'stuesday's  shampain  in  his  head,  with  the  memories  of  the 
past  and  the  hicnuncs  of  the  present  embelliching  the  musics  of 
the  futures  from  Miccheruni's  band)  addressing  himself  ex  alto 
and  complaining  with  vocal  discontent  it  was  so  close  as  of 
the  fact  the  rag  was  up  and  of  the  briefs  and  billpasses,  a  houseful 
of  deadheads,  of  him  to  dye  his  paddycoats  to  morn  his  hestern- 

407 


most  earning,  his  board  in  the  swealth  of  his  fate  as,  having 
moistened  his  manducators  upon  the  quiet  and  scooping  molars 
and  grinders  clean  with  his  two  fore  fingers,  he  sank  his  hunk, 
dowanouet  to  resk  at  once,  exhaust  as  winded  hare,  utterly  spent, 
it  was  all  he  could  do  (disgusted  with  himself  that  the  combined 
weight  of  his  tons  of  iosals  was  a  hundred  men's  massed  too  much 
for  him),  upon  the  native  heath  he  loved  covered  kneehigh  with 
virgin  bush,  for  who  who  e'er  trod  sod  of  Erin  could  ever  sleep 
off  the  turf!  Well,  I'm  liberally  dished  seeing  myself  in  this  trim! 
How  all  too  unwordy  am  I,  a  mere  mailman  of  peace,  a  poor  loust 
hastehater  of  the  first  degree,  the  principot  of  Candia,  no  legs  and 
a  title,  for  such  eminence,  or  unpro  promenade  rather,  to  be  much 
more  exact,  as  to  be  the  bearer  extraordinary  of  these  postoomany 
missive  on  his  majesty's  service  while  me  and  yous  and  them  we're 
extending  us  after  the  pattern  of  reposiveness !  Weh  is  me,  yeh  is 
ye!  I,  the  mightif  beam  maircanny,  which  bit  his  mirth  too  early 
or  met  his  birth  too  late !  It  should  of  been  my  other  with  his 
leickname  for  he's  the  head  and  I'm  an  everdevoting  fiend  of  his. 
I  can  seeze  tomirror  in  tosdays  of  yer  when  we  lofobsed  os  so  ker. 
Those  sembal  simon  pumpkel  pieman  yers !  We  shared  the  twin 
chamber  and  we  winked  on  the  one  wench  and  what  Sim  sobs 
todie  I'll  reeve  tomorry,  for  'twill  be,  I  have  hopes  of,  Sam 
Dizzier's  feedst.  Tune  in,  tune  on,  old  Tighe,  high,  high,  high, 
I'm  thine  owelglass.  Be  old!  He  looks  rather  thin,  imitating  me. 
I'm  very  fond  of  that  other  of  mine.  Fish  hands  Macsorley! 
Elien !  Obsequies !  Bonzeye !  Isaac  Egari's  Ass !  We're  the  music- 
hall  pair  that  won  the  swimmyease  bladdhers  at  the  Guinness 
gala  in  Badeniveagh.  I  ought  not  to  laugh  with  him  on  this  stage. 
But  he'  such  a  game  loser!  I  lift  my  disk  to  him.  Brass  and  reeds, 
brace  and  ready!  How  is  your  napper.  Handy,  and  hownow  does 
she  stand.'^  First  he  was  living  to  feel  what  the  eldest  daughter  she  was 
panseying  and  last  he  was  dying  to  know  what  old  Madre  Patriack 
does  be  up  to.  Take  this  John's  Lane  in  your  toastingfourch.  Shaun- 
ti  and  shaunti  and  shaunti  again!  And  twelve  coolinder  moons! 
I  am  no  helotwashipper  but  I  revere  her!  For  my  own  coant!  She 
has  studied!  Piscisvendolor!  You're  grace!  Futs  dronk  ot 

408 


i 


I 


I 


Wouldndom !  But,  Gemini,  he's  looking  frightfully  thin !  I  heard 
the  man  Shee  shinging  in  the  pantry  bay.  Down  among  the  dust- 
bins let  him  lie!  Ear!  Ear!  Not  ay!  Eye!  Eye!  For  Fm  at  the  heart 
of  it.  Yet  I  cannot  on  my  solemn  merits  as  a  recitativer  recollect 
ever  having  done  of  anything  of  the  kind  to  deserve  of  such. 
Not  the  phost  of  a  nation !  Nor  by  a  long  trollop !  I  just  didn't  have 
the  time  to.  Saint  Anthony  Guide ! 

—  But  have  we  until  now  ever  besought  you,  dear  Shaun,  we 
remembered,  who  it  was,  good  boy,  to  begin  with,  who  out  of 
symphony  gave  you  the  permit.'^ 

—  Goodbye  now,  Shaun  replied,  with  a  voice  pure  as  a  church- 
mode,  in  echo  rightdainty,  with  a  good  catlick  tug  at  his  coco- 
moss  candylock,  a  foretaste  in  time  of  his  cabbageous  brain's 
curlyflower.  Athiacaro!  Comb  his  tar  odd  gee  sing  your  mower 

0  meeow.'^  Greet  thee  Good.'^  How  are  them  columbuses!  Lard 
have  mustard  on  them!  Fatiguing,  very  fatiguing.  Hobos  horn- 
knees  and  the  corveeture  of  my  spine.  Poumeerme !  My  heaviest 
crux  and  dairy  lot  it  is,  with  a  bed  as  hard  as  the  thinkamuddles 
of  the  Greeks  and  a  board  as  bare  as  a  Roman  altar.  I'm  off 
rabbited  kitchens  and  relief  porridgers.  No  later  than  a  very  few 
fortnichts  since  I  was  meeting  on  the  Thinker's  Dam  with  a  pair 
of  men  out  of  glasshouse  whom  I  shuffled  hands  with  named 
MacBlacks — I  think  their  names  is  MacBlakes — from  the  Headfire 
Clump  —  and  they  were  improving  me  and  making  me  beliek  no 
five  hour  factory  life  with  insufficient  emollient  and  industrial 
disabled  for  them  that  day  o'gratises.  I  have  the  highest  grati- 
fication by  anuncing  how  I  have  it  from  whowho  but  Hagios 
CoUeenkiller's  prophecies.  After  suns  and  moons,  dews  and 
wettings,  thunders  and  fires,  comes  sabotag.  Solvitur  palum- 
hallando!  Tilvido!  Adie! 

—  Then,  we  explained,  salve  a  tour,  ambly  andy,  you  possibly 
might  be  so  by  order.^ 

—  Forgive  me,  Shaun  repeated  from  his  liquid  lipes,  not  what 

1  wants  to  do  a  strike  of  work  but  it  was  condemned  on  me  pre- 
mitially  by  Hireark  Books  and  Chiefoverseer  Cooks  in  their 
Eusebian  Concordant  Homilies  and  there  does  be  a  power  com- 

409 


ing  over  me  that  is  put  upon  me  from  on  high  out  of  the  book  of 
breedings  and  so  as  it  is  becoming  hairydittary  I  have  of  coerce 
nothing  in  view  to  look  forward  at  unless  it  is  Swann  and  beat- 
ing the  blindquarters  out  of  my  oldfellow's  orologium  oloss  olo- 
rium.  A  bad  attack  of  maggot  it  feels  like.  'Tis  trope,  custodian 
said.  Almost  might  I  say  of  myself,  while  keeping  out  of  crime, 
I  am  now  becoming  about  fed  up  be  going  circulating  about  them 
new  hikler's  highways  like  them  nameless  souls,  ercked  and  skorned 
and  grizzild  all  over,  till  it's  rusty  October  in  this  bleak  forest 
and  was  veribally  complussed  by  thinking  of  the  crater  of  some 
noted  volcano  or  the  Dublin  river  or  the  catchalot  trouth  subsi- 
dity  as  away  out  or  to  isolate  i  from  my  multiple  Mes  on  the 
spits  of  Lumbage  Island  or  bury  meself,  clogs,  coolcellar  and  all, 
deep  in  my  wineupon  ponteen  unless  Morrissey's  colt  could  help 
me  or  the  gander  maybe  at  49  as  it  is  a  tithe  fish  so  it  is,  this 
pig's  stomach  business,  and  where  on  dearth  or  in  the  miraculous 
meddle  of  this  expending  umniverse  to  turn  since  it  came  into 
my  hands  I  am  hopeless  off  course  to  be  doing  anything  con- 
cerning. 

—  We  expect  you  are,  honest  Shaun,  we  agreed,  but  from 
franking  machines,  Hmricked,  that  in  the  end  it  may  well  turn  out, 
we  hear  to  be  you,  our  belated,  who  will  bear  these  open  letter. 
Speak  to  us  of  Emailia. 

—  As,  Shaun  replied  patly,  with  tootlepick  tact  too  and  a 
down  of  his  dampers,  to  that  I  have  the  gumpower  and,  by  the 
benison  of  Barbe,  that  is  a  lock  to  say  with  everything,  my  be- 
loved. 

—  Would  you  mind  telling  us,  Shaun  honey,  beg  little  big 
moreboy,  we  proposed  to  such  a  dear  youth,  where  mostly  are 
you  able  to  work.  Ah,  you  might!  Whimper  and  we  shall. 

—  Here!  Shaun  replied,  while  he  was  fondling  one  of  liis 
cowheel  cuffs.  There's  no  sabbath  for  nomads  and  I  mostly  was 
able  to  walk,  being  too  soft  for  work  proper,  sixty  odd  eilish 
mires  a  week  between  three  masses  a  morn  and  two  chaplets  at 
eve.  I  am  always  telling  those  pedcstriasts,  my  answerers.  Top, 
Sid  and  Hucky,  now  (and  it  is  a  veriest  throth  as  the  thieves'  re- 

410 


scension)  how  it  was  forstold  for  me  by  brevet  for  my  vacation 
in  life  while  possessing  stout  legs  to  be  disbarred  after  holy  orders 
from  unnecessary  servile  work  of  reckless  walking  of  all  sorts  for 
the  relics  of  my  time  for  otherwise  by  my  so  douching  I  would 
get  into  a  blame  there  where  sieves  fall  out,  Excelsior  tips  the  best. 
Weak  stop  work  stop  walk  stop  whoak.  Go  thou  this  island,  one 
housesleep  there,  then  go  thou  other  island,  two  housesleep  there, 
then  catch  one  nightmaze,  then  home  to  dearies.  Never  back  a 
woman  you  defend,  never  get  quit  of  a  friend  on  whom  you 
depend,  never  make  face  to  a  foe  till  he's  rife  and  never  get  stuck 
to  another  man's  pfife.  Amen,  ptah !  His  hungry  will  be  done !  On 
the  continent  as  in  Eironesia.  But  believe  me  in  my  simplicity  I  am 
awful  good,  I  believe,  so  I  am,  at  the  root  of  me,  praised  be  right 
cheek  Discipline!  And  I  can  now  truthfully  declaret  before  my 
Geity's  Pantokreator  with  my  fleshfettered  palms  on  the  epizzles 
of  the  apossels  that  I  do  my  reasonabler's  best  to  recite  my  grocery 
beans  for  mummy  mit  dummy  mot  muthar  mat  bonzar  regular, 
genuflections  enclosed.  Hek  domov  muy,  there  thou  beest  on  the 
hummock,  ghee  up,  ye  dog,  for  your  daggily  broth,  etc.,  Happy 
Maria  and  Glorious  Patrick,  etc.,  etc.  In  fact,  always,  have  I 
believe.  Greedo  1  Her's  me  hongue ! 

—  And  it  is  the  fullsoot  of  a  tarabred.  Yet  one  minute's  ob- 
servation, dear  dogmestic  Shaun,  as  we  point  out  how  you  have 
while  away  painted  our  town  a  wearing  greenridinghued. 

—  O  murder  mere,  how  did  you  hear.'^  Shaun  replied,  smoil- 
ing  the  ily  way  up  his  lampsleeve  (it  just  seemed  the  natural  thing 
to  do),  so  shy  of  light  was  he  then.  Well,  so  be  it!  The  gloom  hath 
rays,  her  lump  is  love.  And  I  will  confess  to  have,  yes.  Your 
diogneses  is  anonest  man's.  Thrubedore  I  did !  Inditty  I  did.  All  lay 
I  did.  Down  with  the  Saozon  ruze!  And  I  am  afraid  it  wouldn't 
be  my  first  coat's  wasting  after  striding  on  the  vampire  and  blaz- 
ing on  the  focoal.  See !  blazing  on  the  focoal.  As  see !  blazing  upon 
the  foe.  Like  the  regular  redshank  I  am.  Impregnable  as  the  mule 
himself.  Somebody  may  perhaps  hint  at  an  aughter  impression 
of  I  was  wrong.  No  such  a  thing!  You  never  made  a  more  freud- 
ful  mistake,  excuse  yourself!  What's  pork  to  you  means  meat  to 

411 


me  while  you  behold  how  I  be  eld.  But  it  is  grandiose  by  my 
ways  of  thinking  from  the  prophecies.  New  worlds  for  all !  And 
they  were  scotographically  arranged  for  gentlemen  only  by  a 
scripchewer  in  whofoundland  who  finds  he  is  a  relative.  And  it 
was  with  my  extravert  davy.  Like  glue.  Be  through.  Moyhard's 
daynoight,  tomthumb.  Phwum ! 

—  How  mielodorous  is  thy  bel  chant,  O  songbird,  and  how 
exqueezit  thine  after  draught!  Buccinate  in  Emenia  tuba  insigni 
volumnitatis  tuae.  But  do  you  mean,  O  phausdheen  phewn,  from 
Pontoffbellek  till  the  Kisslemerched  our  ledan  triz  will  be.'^  we 
gathered  substantively  whether  furniture  would  or  verdure  var- 
nish.'^ 

—  It  is  a  confoundyous  injective  so  to  say,  Shaun  the  fiery 
boy  shouted,  naturally  incensed,  as  he  shook  the  red  pepper  out 
of  his  auricles.  And  another  time  please  confine  your  glaring  in- 
tinuations  to  some  other  mordant  body.  What  on  the  physiog 
of  this  furnaced  planet  would  I  be  doing  besides  your  verjuice.'* 
That  is  more  than  I  can  fix,  for  the  teom  bihan,  anyway.  So  let  I 
and  you  now  kindly  drop  that,  angryman!  That's  not  French 
pastry.  You  can  take  it  from  me.  Understand  me  when  I  tell  you 
(and  I  will  ask  you  not  to  whisple,  cry  golden  or  quoth  mecback) 
that  under  the  past  purcell's  ofiice,  so  deeply  deplored  by  my 
erstwhile  elder  friend.  Miss  Enders,  poachmistress  and  gay  re- 
ceiver ever  for  in  particular  to  the  Scotic  Poor  Men's  Thousand 
Gallon  Cow  Society  (I  was  thinking  of  her  in  sthore)  allbethey 
blessed  with  twentytwo  thousand  sorters  out  of  a  biggest  poss 
of  twentytwo  thousand,  mine's  won,  too  much  privet  stationery 
and  safty  quipu  was  ate  up  larchly  by  those  nettlesome  goats 
out  of  pension  greed.  Colpa  di  BeccOy  huon  apartitaf  Proceding, 
I  will  say  it  is  also  one  of  my  avowal's  intentions,  at  some  time 
pease  Pod  pluse  murthers  of  gout  (when  I  am  not  prepared  to  say) 
so  apt  as  my  pen  is  upt  to  scratch,  to  compound  quite  the  makings 
of  a  verdigrease  savingsbook  in  the  form  of  a  pair  of  capri 
sheep  boxing  gloves  surrounding  this  matter  of  the  Welsfusel 
mascoteers  and  their  sindybuck  that  saved  a  city  for  my  publickers, 
Nolaner  and  Browno,  Nickil  Hopstout,  Christcross,  so  long  as, 

412 


u 


thanks  to  force  of  destiny,  my  selary  as  a  paykelt  is  propaired, 
and  there  is  a  peg  under  me  and  there  is  a  turn  till  me. 

To  the  Very  Honourable  The  Memory  of  Disgrace,  the  Most 
Noble,  Sometime  Sweepyard  at  the  Service  of  the  Writer.  Salu- 
tem  dicint.  The  just  defunct  Mrs  Sanders  who  (the  Loyd  insure 
her!)  I  was  shift  and  shuft  too,  with  her  shester  Mrs  Shunders, 
both  mudical  dauctors  from  highschoolhorse  and  aslyke  as 
Easther's  leggs.  She  was  the  niceliest  person  of  a  wellteached  non- 
party woman  that  I  ever  acquired  her  letters,  only  too  fat,  used 
to  babies  and  tottydean  verbish  this  is  her  entertermentdags  for 
she  shuk  the  bottle  and  tuk  the  medascene  all  times  a  day.  She 
was  well  under  ninety,  poor  late  Mrs,  and  had  tastes  of  the  poetics, 
me  having  stood  the  pilgarlick  a  fresh  at  sea  when  the  moon  also 
was  standing  in  a  corner  of  sweet  Standerson  my  ski.  P.L.M. 
Mevrouw  von  Andersen  was  her  whogave  me  a  muttonbrooch, 
stakkers  for  her  begfirst  party.  Honour  thy  farmer  and  my  lit- 
ters. This,  my  tears,  is  my  last  will  intesticle  wrote  off  in  the 
strutforit  about  their  absent  female  assauciations  which  I,  or  per- 
haps any  other  person  what  squaton  a  toffette,  have  the  honour 
to  had  upon  their  polite  sophykussens  in  the  real  presence  of  de- 
vouted  Mrs  Grumby  when  her  skin  was  exposed  to  the  air.  O 
what  must  the  grief  of  my  mund  be  for  two  little  ptpt  coolies 
worth  twenty  thousand  quad  herewitdnessed  with  both's 
maddlemass  wishes  to  Pepette  for  next  match  from  their  dearly 
beloved  Roggers,  M.D.D.  O.D.  May  doubling  drop  of  drooght! 
Writing. 

—  Hopsoloosely  kidding  you  are  totether  with  your  cadenus 
and  goat  along  nose  how  we  shall  complete  that  white  paper. 
Two  venusstas!  Biggerstiff!  Qweer  but  gaon!  Be  trouz  and 
wholetrouz!  Otherwise,  frank  Shaun,  we  pursued,  what  would 
be  the  autobiography  of  your  softbodied  fumiform.^ 

—  Hooraymost!  None  whomsoever,  Shaun  replied.  Heavenly 
blank!  (he  had  intentended  and  was  peering  now  rather  close  to 
the  paste  of  his  rubiny  winklering)  though  it  ought  to  be  more 
or  less  rawcawcaw  romantical.  By  the  wag,  how  is  Mr  Fry.^  All 
of  it,  I  might  say,  in  ex-voto,  pay  and  perks  and  wooden  half- 

413 


pence,  some  rhino,  rhine,  O  joy  oust  rhine,  was  handled  over  spon- 
daneously  by  me  (and  bundle  end  to  my  illwishers'  Miss  Anders  1 
she  woor  her  wraith  of  ruins  the  night  she  lost  I  left !)  in  the  ligname 
of  Mr  van  Howten  of  Tredcastles,  Clowntalkin,  timbreman,  among 
my  prodigits  nabobs  and  navious  of  every  subscription  entitled 
the  Bois  in  the  Boscoor,  our  evicted  tenemants.  What  I  say  is  (and 
I  am  noen  roehorn  or  culkilt  permit  me  to  tell  you,  if  uninformed), 
I  never  spont  it.  Nor  have  I  the  ghuest  of  innation  on  me  the  way 
to.  It  is  my  rule  so.  It  went  anyway  like  hot  pottagebake.  And 
this  brings  me  to  my  fresh  point.  Quoniam,  I  am  as  plain  as 
portable  enveloped,  inhowmuch,  you  will  now  parably  receive, 
care  of  one  of  Mooseyeare  Goonness's  registered  andouterthus 
barrels.  Quick  take  um  whiffat  andrainit.  Now! 

—  So  vi  etl  we  responded.  Song!  Shaun,  song!  Have  mood! 
Hold  forth! 

—  I  apologuise,  Shaun  began,  but  I  would  rather  spinooze 
you  one  from  the  grimm  gests  of  Jacko  and  Esaup,  fable  one, 
feeble  too.  Let  us  here  consider  the  casus,  my  dear  little  cousis 
(husstenhasstencaffincoffintussemtossemdamandamnacosaghcusa- 
ghhobixhatouxpeswchbechoscashlcarcarcaract)  of  the  Ondt  and 
the  Gracehoper. 

The  Gracehoper  was  always  jigging  ajog,  hoppy  on  akkant 
of  his  joyicity,  (he  had  a  partner  pair  of  findlestilts  to  supplant 
him),  or,  if  not,  he  was  always  making  ungraceful  overtures  to 
Floh  and  Luse  and  Bienie  and  Vespatilla  to  play  pupa-pupa  and 
pulicy-pulicy  and  langtennas  and  pushpygyddyum  and  to  com- 
mence insects  with  him,  there  mouthparts  to  his  orefice  and  his 
gambills  to  there  airy  processes,  even  if  only  in  chaste,  ameng 
the  everlistings,  behold  a  waspering  pot.  He  would  of  curse 
melissciously,  by  his  fore  feelhers,  flexors,  contractors,  depres- 
sors and  extensors,  lamely,  harry  me,  marry  me,  bury  me,  bind 
me,  till  she  was  puce  for  shame  and  allso  fourmish  her  in  Spin- 
ner's housery  at  the  earthsbest  schoppinhour  so  summery  as  his 
cottage,  which  was  cald  fourmillierly  Tingsomingenting,  groped 
up.  Or,  if  he  was  always  striking  up  funny  funereels  with  Bester- 
farther  Zeuts,  the  Aged  One,  with  all  his  wigeared  corollas,  albe- 


dinous  and  oldbuoyant,  inscythe  his  elytrical  wormcasket  and 
Dehlia  and  Peonia,  his  druping  nymphs,  bewheedling  him,  com- 
pound eyes  on  hornitosehead,  and  Auld  Letty  Plussiboots  to 
scratch  his  cacumen  and  cackle  his  tramsitus,  diva  deborah  (seven 
bolls  of  sapo,  a  lick  of  lime,  two  spurts  of  fussfor,  threefurts  of 
sulph,  a  shake  o'shouker,  doze  grains  of  migniss  and  a  mesfull  of 
midcap  pitchies.  The  whool  of  the  whaal  in  the  wheel  of  the 
whorl  of  the  Boubou  from  Bourneum  has  thus  come  to  taonl), 
and  with  tambarins  and  cantoridettes  soturning  around  his  eggs- 
hill  rockcoach  their  dance  McCaper  in  retrophoebia,  beck  from 
bulk,  like  fantastic  disossed  and  jenny  aprils,  to  the  ra,  the  ra,  the 
ra,  the  ra,  langsome  heels  and  langsome  toesis,  attended  to  by  a 
mutter  and  doffer  duffmatt  baxingmotch  and  a  myrmidins  of 
pszozlers  pszinging  Satyr  s  Caudledayed  Nice  and  Horribly^ 
Domhly  Sod  We  Awhile  but  Ho,  Time  Timeagen,  Wake!  For  if 
sciendum  (what's  what)  can  mute  uns  nought,  'a  thought, 
abought  the  Great  Sommboddy  within  the  Omniboss,  perhops  an 
artsaccord  (hoot's  hoot)  might  sing  ums  tumtim  abutt  the  Little 
Newbuddies  that  ring  his  panch.  A  high  old  tide  for  the  bar- 
heated  publics  and  the  whole  day  as  gratiis !  Fudder  and  lighting 
for  ally  looty,  any  filly  in  a  fog,  for  O'Cronione  lags  acrumbling 
in  his  sands  but  his  sunsunsuns  still  tumble  on.  Erething  above 
ground,  as  his  Book  of  Breathings  bed  him,  so  as  everwhy,  sham 
or  shunner,  zeemliangly  to  kick  time. 

Grouscious  me  and  scarab  my  sahul!  What  a  bagateller  it  is! 
Libelulous!  Inzanzarity!  Pou!  Pschla!  Ptuh!  What  a  zeit  for  the 
goths!  vented  the  Ondt,  who,  not  being  a  sommerfool,  was 
thothfolly  making  chilly  spaces  at  hisphex  affront  of  the  icinglass 
of  his  windhame,  which  was  cold  antitopically  Nixnixundnix. 
We  shall  not  come  to  party  at  that  lopp's,  he  decided  possibly, 
for  he  is  not  on  our  social  list.  Nor  to  Ba's  berial  nether,  thon 
sloghard,  this  oldeborre's  yaar  ablong  as  there's  a  khul  on  a  khat. 
Nefersenless,  when  he  had  safely  looked  up  his  ovipository,  he 
loftet  hails  and  prayed:  May  he  me  no  voida  water!  Seekit  Ha- 
tup!  May  no  he  me  tile  pig  shed  on!  Suckit  Hotup!  As  broad  as 
Beppy's  realm  shall  flourish  my  reign  shall  flourish!  As  high  as 

41? 


Heppy's  hevn  shall  flurrish  my  haine  shall  hurrish!  Shall  grow, 
shall  flourish!  Shall  hurrish!  Hummum. 

The  Ondt  was  a  weltall  fellow,  raumybult  and  abelboobied, 
bynear  saw  altitudinous  wee  a  schelling  in  kopfers.  He  was  sair 
sair  sullemn  and  chairmanlooking  when  he  was  not  making  spaces 
in  his  psyche,  but,  laus !  when  he  wore  making  spaces  on  his  ikey, 
he  ware  mouche  mothst  secred  and  muravyingly  wisechairman- 
looking.  Now  whim  the  sillybilly  of  a  Gracehoper  had  jingled 
through  a  jungle  of  love  and  debts  and  jangled  through  a  jumble 
of  life  in  doubts  afterworse,  wetting  with  the  bimblebeaks,  drik- 
king  with  nautonects,  bilking  with  durrydunglecks  and  horing 
after  lady  birdies  (ichnehmon  diagelegenaitoikon)  he  fell  joust  as 
sieck  as  a  sexton  and  tantoo  pooveroo  quant  a  churchprince,  and 
wheer  the  midges  to  wend  hemsylph  or  vosch  to  sirch  for  grub 
for  his  corapusse  or  to  find  a  hospes,  alick,  he  wist  gnit!  Bruko 
dry!  fuko  spint!  Sultamont  osa  bare!  And  volomundo  osi  vide- 
vide!  Nichtsnichtsundnichts!  Not  one  pickopeck  of  muscow- 
money  to  bag  a  tittlebits  of  beebread!  lomio!  lomio!  Crick's 
corbicule,  which  a  plight!  O  moy  Bog,  he  contrited  with  melan- 
ctholy.  Meblizzered,  him  sluggered !  I  am  heartily  hungry ! 

He  had  eaten  all  the  whilepaper,  swallowed  the  lustres,  de- 
voured forty  flights  of  styearcases,  chewed  up  all  the  mensas  and 
seccles,  ronged  the  records,  made  mundballs  of  the  ephemerids 
and  vorasioused  most  glutinously  with  the  very  timeplace  in  the 
ternitary  —  not  too  dusty  a  cicada  of  neutriment  for  a  chittinous 
chip  so  mitey.  But  when  Chrysalmas  was  on  the  bare  branches, 
off  he  went  from  Tingsomingenting.  He  took  a  round  stroll  and 
he  took  a  stroll  round  and  he  took  a  round  strollagain  till  the 
grillies  in  his  head  and  the  leivnits  in  his  hair  made  him  thought 
he  had  the  Tossmania.  Had  he  twicycled  the  sees  of  the  deed 
and  trestraversed  their  revermer?  Was  he  come  to  hevre  with  his 
engiles  or  gone  to  hull  with  the  poop?  The  June  snows  was 
flocking  in  thuckflues  on  the  hegelstomes,  millipeeds  of  it  and 
myriopoods,  and  a  lugly  whizzling  tournedos,  the  Boraborayel- 
Jers,  blohablasting  tegolhuts  up  to  tetties  and  ruching  sleets  off 
the  coppeehouses,  playing  ragnowrock  rignewreck,  with  an  irri- 

416 


tant,  penetrant,  siphonopterous  spuk.  Grausssssss!  Opr! 
Grausssssss!  Opr! 

The  Gracehoper  who,  though  blind  as  batflea,  yet  knew,  not 
a  leetle  beetle,  his  good  smetterling  of  entymology  asped  niss- 
unitimost  lous  nor  liceens  but  promptly  tossed  himself  in  the 
vico,  phthin  and  phthir,  on  top  of  his  buzzer,  tezzily  wondering 
wheer  would  his  aluck  alight  or  boss  of  both  appease  and  the 
next  time  he  makes  the  aquinatance  of  the  Ondt  after  this  they 
have  met  themselves,  these  mouschical  umsummables,  it  shall  be 
motylucky  if  he  will  beheld  not  a  world  of  differents.  Behailed 
His  Gross  the  Ondt,  prostrandvorous  upon  his  dhrone,  in  his 
Papylonian  babooshkees,  smolking  a  spatial  brunt  of  Hosana 
cigals,  with  unshrinkables  farfalling  from  his  unthinkables, 
swarming  of  himself  in  his  sunnyroom,  sated  before  his  com- 
fortumble  phullupsuppy  of  a  plate  o'monkynous  and  a  confucion 
of  minthe  (for  he  was  a  conformed  aceticist  and  aristotaller),  as 
appi  as  a  oneysucker  or  a  baskerboy  on  the  Libido,  with  Floh 
biting  his  leg  thigh  and  Luse  lugging  his  luff  leg  and  Bieni  bussing 
him  under  his  bonnet  and  Vespatilla  blowing  cosy  fond  tutties 
up  the  allabroad  length  of  the  large  of  his  smalls.  As  entomate 
as  intimate  could  pinchably  be.  Emmet  and  demmet  and  be  jiltses 
crazed  and  be  jadeses  whipt!  schneezed  the  Gracehoper,  aguepe 
with  ptchjelasys  and  at  his  wittoFs  indts,  what  have  eyeforsight! 

The  Ondt,  that  true  and  perfect  host,  a  spiter  aspinne,  was 
making  the  greatest  spass  a  body  could  with  his  queens  lace- 
swinging  for  he  was  spizzing  all  over  him  like  thingsumanything 
in  formicolation,  boundlessly  blissfilled  in  an  allallahbath  of 
houris.  He  was  ameising  himself  hugely  at  crabround  and  mary- 
pose,  chasing  Floh  out  of  charity  and  tickling  Luse,  I  hope  too, 
and  tackling  Bienie,  faith,  as  well,  and  jucking  Vespatilla  jukely 
by  the  chimiche.  Never  did  Dorsan  from  Dunshanagan  dance  it 
with  more  devilry!  The  veripatetic  imago  of  the  impossible 
Gracehoper  on  his  odderkop  in  the  myre,  after  his  thrice  ephe- 
meral journeeys,  sans  mantis  ne  shooshooe,  featherweighed 
animule,  actually  and  presumptuably  sinctifying  chronic's  de- 
spair, was  sufficiendy  and  probably  coocoo  much  for  his  chorous 

417 


of  gravitates.  Let  him  be  Artalone  the  Weeps  with  his  parisites 
peeling  off  him  Til  be  Highfee  the  Crackasider.  Flunkey  Footle 
furloughed  foul,  writing  off  his  phoney,  but  Conte  Carme  makes 
the  melody  that  mints  the  money.  Ad  majorem  Ls.dJ  Divigloriam. 
A  darkener  of  the  threshold.  Haru.'^  Orimis,  capsizer  of  his  ant- 
boat,  sekketh  rede  from  Evil-it-is,  lord  of  loaves  in  Amongded. 
Be  it!  So  be  it!  Thou-who-thou-art,  the  fleet-as-spindhrift, 
impfang  thee  of  mine  wideheight.  Haru  1 
The  thing  pleased  him  andt,  and  andt. 

He  larved  ond  he  larved  on  he  merd  such  a  nauses 

The  Gracehoper  feared  he  would  mixplace  his  fauces. 

I  forgive  yoUy  grondt  Ondty  said  the  Gracehoper  ^  weeping. 

For  their  sukes  of  the  sakes  you  are  safe  in  whose  keeping. 

Teach  Floh  and  Luse  polkas,  show  Bienie  where  s  sweet 

And  he  sure  Vespatilla  fines  fat  ones  to  heat. 

As  I  once  played  the  piper  I  must  now  pay  the  count 

So  saida  to  Moyhammlet  and  marhaba  to  your  Mount/ 

Let  who  likes  lump  above  so  what  flies  be  a  full  'un; 

I  could  not  feel  moregruggy  if  this  was  prompollen. 

I  pick  up  your  reproof  the  horsegift  of  a  friend. 

For  the  pri^e  of  your  save  is  the  price  of  my  spend. 

Can  castwhores  pulladeftkiss  if  oldpollocks  forsake  'em 

Or  Culex  feel  etchy  if  Pulex  dont  wake  him? 

A  locus  to  loue,  a  term  it  tembarass. 

These  twain  are  the  twins  that  tick  Homo  Vulgaris. 

Has  Aquileone  nort  winged  to  go  syf 

Since  the  Gwyfyn  we  were  in  his  farrest  drewbryf 

And  that  Accident  Man  not  beseeked  where  his  story  ends 

Since  longsephyring  sighs  sought  heartseast  for  their  orience? 

We  are  Wastenot  with  Want,  precondamned,  two  and  true. 

Till  Nolans  go  volants  and  Bruneyes  come  blue. 

Ere  those  gidflirts  now  gadding  you  quit  your  mocks  for  my  gropes 

An  extense  must  impull,  an  elapse  must  elopes. 

Of  my  tectucs  takestock,  tinktact,  and  ail's  weal; 

As  I  view  by  your  farlook  hale  yourself  to  my  heal. 

418 


Partiprise  my  thinwhins  whiles  my  blink  points  unbroken  on 

Your  whole's  whercabroads  with  Tout's  trightyright  token  on. 

My  in  risible  universe  youdly  haud  find 

Sulch  oxtrabeeforeness  meat  soveal  behind. 

Your  feats  end  enormous y  your  volumes  immense ^ 

{May  the  Graces  I  hoped  for  sing  your  Ondtship  song  sense/)  y 

Your  genus  its  worldwide,  your  spacest  sublime! 

Buty  Holy  Saltmartiny  why  can't  you  beat  time? 

In  the  name  of  the  former  and  of  the  latter  and  of  their  holo- 
caust. Allmen. 

—  Now?  How  good  you  are  in  explosition!  How  farflung  is 
your  fokloire  and  how  velktingeling  your  volupkabulary!  Qui 
vive  sparanto  qua  muore  contanto.  O  foibler,  O  flip,  you've  that 
wandervogl  wail  withyin !  It  falls  easily  upon  the  earopen  and  goes 
down  the  friskly  shortiest  like  treacling  tumtim  with  its  tingting- 
taggle.  The  blarneyest  blather  in  all  Corneywall!  But  could  you, 
of  course,  decent  Lettrechaun,  we  knew  (to  change  your  name  of 
not  your  nation)  while  still  in  the  barrel,  read  the  strangewrote 
anaglyptics  of  those  shemletters  patent  for  His  Christian's  Em? 

—  Greek!  Hand  it  to  me!  Shaun  replied,  plosively  pointing  to 
the  cinnamon  quistoquill  behind  his  acoustrolobe.  I'm  as  after- 
dusk  nobly  Roman  as  pope  and  water  could  christen  me.  Look 
at  that  for  a  ridingpin!  I  am,  thing  Sing  Larynx,  letter  potent  to 
play  the  sem  backwards  like  Oscan  wild  or  in  shunt  Persse  trans- 
luding  from  the  Otherman  or  oiff  the  Toptic  or  anything  off  the 
types  of  my  finklers  in  the  draught  or  with  buttles,  with  my  oyes 
thickshut  and  all.  But,  hellas,  it  is  harrobrew  bad  on  the  corns  and 
callouses.  As  far  as  that  goes  I  associate  myself  with  your  remark 
just  now  from  theodicy  re'furloined  notepaper  and  quite  agree  in 
your  prescriptions  for  indeed  I  am,  pay  Gay,  in  juxtaposition  to 
say  it  is  not  a  nice  production.  It  is  a  pinch  of  scribble,  not 
wortha  bottle  of  cabbis.  Overdrawn!  Puffedly  offal  tosh!  Be- 
sides its  auctionable,  all  about  crime  and  libel !  Nothing  beyond 
clerical  horrors  et  omnibus  to  be  entered  for  the  foreign  as  second- 
class  matter.  The  fuellest  filth  ever  fired  since  Charley  Lucan's. 

419 


Flummery  is  what  I  would  call  it  if  you  were  to  ask  me  to  put  it 
on  a  single  dimension  what  pronounced  opinion  I  might  possibly 
orally  have  about  them  bagses  of  trash  which  the  mother  and 
Mr  Unmentionable  (O  breed  not  his  same!)  has  reduced  to  writ- 
ing without  making  news  out  of  my  sootynemm.  When  she 
slipped  under  her  couchman.  And  \y}iere  he  made  a  cat  with  a 
peep.  How  they  wore  two  madges  on  the  makewater.  And  why 
there  were  treefellers  in  the  shrubrubs.  Then  he  hawks  his  hand- 
mud  figgers  from  Francie  to  Fritzie  down  in  the  kookin.  Phiz 
is  me  mother  and  Hair's  me  father.  Bauv  Betty  Famm  and  Pig 
Pig  Pike.  Their  livetree  (may  it  flourish !)  by  their  ecotaph  (let  it 
stayne!).  With  balsinbal  bimbies  swarming  tiltop.  Comme  bien, 
Comme  bien!  Feefeel!  Feefeel!  And  the  Dutches  dyin  loffin  at 
his  pon  peck  de  Barec.  And  all  the  mound  reared.  Till  he  wot  not 
wot  to  begin  he  should.  An  infant  sailing  eggshells  on  the  floor 
of  a  wet  day  would  have  more  sabby. 

Letter,  carried  of  Shaun,  son  of  Hek,  written  of  Shem,  brother 
of  Shaun,  uttered  for  Alp,  mother  of  Shem,  for  Hek,  father  of 
Shaun.  Initialled.  Gee.  Gone.  29  Hardware  Saint.  Lendet  till 
Laonum.  Baile-Atha-Cliath.  31  Jan.  11 32  a.d.  Here  Com- 
merces Enville.  Tried  Apposite  House.  13  Fitzgibbets.  Loco. 
Dangerous.  Tax  9d.  B.L.  Guineys,  esqueer.  L.B.  Not  known  at 
1 132  a.  12  Norse  Richmound.  Nave  unlodgeable.  Loved  noa's 
dress.  Sinned,  Jetty  Pierrse.  Noon  sick  parson.  92  Windsewer. 
Ave.  No  such  no.  Vale.  Finn's  Hot.  Exbelled  from  1014  d.  Pull- 
down. Fearview.  Opened  by  Miss  Take.  965  nighumpledan  sexti- 
ffits.  Shout  at  Site.  Roofloss.  Fit  Dunlop  and  Be  Satisfied.  Mr. 
Domnall  O'Domnally.  Q.V.  8  Royal  Terrors.  None  so  strait. 
