one  kudos;  exits,  free)  and  our  notional  gullery  is  now  com- 
pletely complacent,  an  exegious  monument,  aerily  perennious. 
Oblige  with  your  blackthorns;  gamps,  degrace!  And  there  many 
have  paused  before  that  exposure  of  him  by  old  Tom  Quad,  a 
flashback  in  which  he  sits  sated,  gowndabout,  in  clericalease  ha- 
bit, watching  bland  sol  slithe  dodgsomely  into  the  nethermore, 
a  globule  of  maugdleness  about  to  corrugitate  his  mild  dewed 
cheek  and  the  tata  of  a  tiny  victorienne,  Alys,  pressed  by  his 
limper  looser. 

Yet  certes  one  is.  Eher  the  following  winter  had  overed  the 
pages  of  nature's  book  and  till  Ceadurbar-atta-Cleath  became 
Dablena  Tertia,  the  shadow  of  the  huge  outlander,  maladik,  mult- 
vult,  magnoperous,  had  bulked  at  the  bar  of  a  rota  of  tribunals  in 
manor  hall  as  in  thieves'  kitchen,  mid  pillow  talk  and  chithouse 
chat,  on  Marlborough  Green  as  through  Molesworth  Fields,  here 
sentenced  pro  tried  with  Jedburgh  justice,  there  acquitted  con- 

57 


testimony  with  benefit  of  clergy.  His  Thing  Mod  have  undone 
him:  and  his  madthing  has  done  him  man.  His  beneficiaries  are 
legion  in  the  part  he  created:  they  number  up  his  years.  Greatwheel 
Dunlop  was  the  name  was  on  him:  behung,  all  we  are  his  bisaacles. 
As  hollyday  in  his  house  so  was  he  priest  and  king  to  that:  ulvy 
came,  envy  saw,  ivy  conquered.  Lou!  Lou!  They  have  waved  his 
green  boughs  o'er  him  as  they  have  torn  him  limb  from  lamb. 
For  his  muertificarion  and  uxpiration  and  dumnation  and  annu- 
hulation.  With  schreis  and  grida,  deprofound  souspirs.  Steady, 
sullivans!  Mannequins  pause!  Longtong*s  breach  is  fallen  down 
but  Graunya's  spreed's  abroad.  Ahdostay,  feedailyones,  and  feel 
the  Flucher*s  bawls  for  the  total  of  your  flouts  is  not  fit  to  fan  his 
fettle,  O!  Have  a  ring  and  sing  wohl!  Chin,  chin!  Chin,  chin! 
And  of  course  all  chimed  din  width  the  eatmost  boviality.  Swip- 
ing rums  and  beaunes  and  sherries  and  ciders  and  negus  and  cit- 
ronnades  too.  The  strongers.  Oho,  oho,  Mester  Begge,  you're 
about  to  be  bagged  in  the  bog  again.  Bugge.  But  softsies  seuf- 
sighed:  Eheu,  for  gassies!  But,  lo!  lo!  by  the  threnning  gods, 
human,  erring  and  condonable,  what  the  statues  of  our  kuo,  who 
is  the  messchef  be  our  kuang,  ashu  ashure  there,  the  unforgettable 
treeshade  looms  up  behind  the  jostling  judgements  of  those,  as 
all  should  owe,  malrecapturable  days. 

Tap  and  pat  and  tapatagain,  (fire  firstshot,  Missiers  the  Refusel- 
eers!  Peingpeong!  For  saxonlootie !)  three  tommix,  soldiers  free, 
cockaleak  and  cappapee,  of  the  Coldstream.  Guards  were  walking, 
in  {pardonnei-leur^  je  vous  en  prie^  eh?)  Montgomery  Street.  One 
voiced  an  opinion  in  which  on  either  wide  {pardonnei/\  nod- 
ding, all  the  Finner  Camps  concurred  {je  vous  en  prie^  ehF),  It 
was  the  first  woman,  they  said,  souped  him,  that  fatal  wellesday, 
Lili  Coninghams,  by  suggesting  him  they  go  in  a  field.  Wroth 
mod  eldfar,  ruth  redd  stilstand,  wrath  wrackt  wroth,  confessed 
private  Pat  Marchison  retro,  (Terse!)  Thus  contenters  with  san- 
toys  play.  One  of  our  coming  Vauxhall  ontheboards  who  is 
resting  for  the  moment  (she  has  been  callit  by  a  noted  stagey  ele- 
cutioner  a  wastepacket  Sittons)  was  interfeud  in  a  waistend  pewty 
parlour.  Looking  perhaps  even  more  pewtyflushed  in  her  cherry- 

58 


I 


deny  padouasoys,  girdle  and  braces  by  the  Halfmoon  and  Seven 
Stars,  russets  from  the  Blackamoor's  Head,  amongst  the  climbing 
boys  at  his  Eagle  and  Child  and  over  the  corn  and  hay  emptors 
at  their  Black  and  All  Black,  Mrs  F  . .  .  A . .  .  saidaside,  half  in 
stage  of  whisper  to  her  confidante  glass,  while  recoopering  her 
cartwheel  chapot  (ahat!  — and  we  now  know  what  thimbles  a 
baquets  on  lallance  a  tails  mean),  she  hoped  Sid  Arthar  would 
git  a  Chrissman's  portrout  of  orange  and  lemonsized  orchids  with 
hollegs  and  ether,  from  the  feeatre  of  the  Innocident,  as  the 
worryld  had  been  uncained.  Then,  while  it  is  odrous  comparison- 
ing  to  the  sprangflpwers  of  his  burstday  which  was  a  virid- 
able  goddinpotty  for  the  reinworms  and  the  charlattinas  and  all 
branches  of  climatitis,  it  has  been  such  a  wanderful  noyth  untirely, 
added  she,  with  many  regards  to  Maha's  pranjapansies.  (Tart!) 
Prehistoric,  obitered  to  his  dictaphone  an  entychologist:  his  pro- 
penomen  is  a  properismenon.  A  dustman  nocknamed  Seven- 
churches  in  the  employ  of  Messrs  Achburn,  Soulpetre  and 
Ashreborn,  prairmakers,  Glintalook,  was  asked  by  the  sisterhood 
the  vexed  question  during  his  midday  collation  of  leaver  and 
buckrom  alternatively  with  stenk  and  kitteney  phie  in  a  hash- 
housh  and,  thankeaven,  responsed  impulsively:  We  have  just  been 
propogandering  his  nullity  suit  and  what  they  took  out  of  his  ear 
among  my  own  crush.  All  our  fellows  at  0'Dea*s  sages  with 
Aratar  Calaman  he  is  a  cemented  brick,  buck  it  all!  A  more  nor 
usually  sober  cardriver,  who  was  jauntingly  hosing  his  runabout. 
Ginger  Jane,  took  a  strong  view.  Lorry  hosed  her  as  he  talked 
and  this  is  what  he  told  rewritemen:  Irewaker  is  just  a  plain  pink 
joint  reformee  in  private  life  but  folks  all  have  it  by  brehemons 
laws  he  has  parliamentary  honours.  Eiskaffier  said  (Louigi's,  you 
know  that  man*s,  brillant  Savourain):  Mon  foicy  you  wish  to  ave 
some  homelette,  yes,  lady !  Good,  mein  leber !  Your  hegg  he  must 
break  himself.  See,  I  crack,  so,  he  sit  in  the  poele,  umbedimbt! 
A  perspirer  (over  sixty)  who  was  keeping  up  his  tennises  panted 
he  kne  ho  har  twa  to  elect  infamatios  but  a  difFpair  flannels  climb 
wall  and  trespassing  on  doorbell.  After  fullblown  Braddon  hear 
this  fresky  troterella!  A  railways  barmaid's  view  (they  call  her 

59 


Spilltears  Rue)  was  thus  expressed:  to  sympathisers  of  the  Dole 
Line,  Death  Avenue,  anent  those  objects  of  her  pity-prompted 
ministrance,  to  wet,  man  and  his  syphon.  Ehim!  It  is  ever  too 
late  to  whissle  when  Phyllis  floods  her  stable.  It  would  be  skar- 
lot  shame  to  jailahim  in  lockup,  as  was  proposed  to  him  by  the 
Seddoms  creature  what  matter  what  merrytricks  went  off  with 
his  revulverher  in  connections  with  ehim  being  a  norphan  and 
enjoining  such  wicked  illth,  ehim!  Well  done,  Drumcollakill ! 
Kitty  Tyrrel  is  proud  of  you,  was  the  reply  of  a  B.O.T.  official 
(O  blame  gnot  the  board!)  while  the  Daughters  Benkletter  mur- 
mured in  uniswoon:  Golforgilhisjurylegs!  Brian  Lynsky,  the  cub 
curser,  was  questioned  at  his  shouting  box,  Bawlonabraggat,  and 
gave  a  snappy  comeback,  when  saying:  Paw!  Once  more  FU 
hellbowl !  I  am  for  caveman  chase  and  Sahara  sex,  burk  you !  Them 
two  bitches  ought  to  be  leashed,  canem!  Up  hog  and  hoar  hunt! 
Paw!  A  wouldbe  martyr,  who  is  attending  on  sanit  Asitas  where 
he  is  being  taught  to  wear  bracelets,  when  grilled  on  the  point, 
revealed  the  undoubted  fact  that  the  consequence  would  be  that 
so  long  as  Sankya  Moondy  played  his  mango  tricks  under  the 
mysttetry,  with  shady  apsaras  sheltering  in  his  leaves'  licence  and 
his  shadowers  torrifried  by  the  potent  bolts  of  indradiction,  there 
would  be  fights  all  over  Cuxhaven.  (Tosh!)  Missioner  Ida  Womb- 
well,  the  seventeenyearold  revivalist,  said  concerning  the  coinci- 
dent of  interfizzing  with  grenadines  and  other  respectable  and 
disgusted  peersons  using  the  park:  That  perpendicular  person  is 
a  brut!  But  a  magnificent  brut!  'Caligula  (Mr  Danl  Magrath, 
bookmaker,  wellknown  to  Eastrailian  poorusers  of  the  Sydney 
Parade  Ballotin)  was,  as  usual,  antipodal  with  his:  striving  todie, 
hopening  tomellow.  Ware  Splash.  Cobbler.  We  have  meat  two 
hourly,  sang  out  El  Caplan  Buycout,  with  the  famous  padre's 
turridur's  capecast,  meet  too  ourly,  matadear!  Dan  Meiklejohn, 
precentor,  of  S.S.  Smack  and  Olley's  was  probiverbal  with  his 
upsiduxit:  mutatus  mutandus.  Dauran's  lord  ('Sniffpox')  and  Moir- 
gan's  lady  ('Flatterfun')  took  sides  and  crossed  and  bowed  to 
each  other's  views  and  recrossed  themselves.  The  dirty  dubs  upin 
their  flies,  went  too  free,  echoed  the  dainly  drabs  downin  their 

60 


I 


scenities,  una  mona.  Sylvia  Silence,  the  girl  detective  (Meminerva, 
but  by  now  one  hears  turtlings  all  over  Doveland!)  when  supplied 
with  informations  as  to  the  several  facets  of  the  case  in  her  cozy- 
dozy  bachelure's  flat,  quite  overlooking  John  a'Dream's  mews, 
leaned  back  in  her  really  truly  easy  chair  to  query  restfully  through 
her  vowelthreaded  syllabelles:  Have  you  evew  thought,  wepow- 
tew,  that  sheew  gweatness  was  his  twadgedy?  Nevewtheless  ac- 
cowding  to  my  considewed  attitudes  fow  this  act  he  should  pay 
the  full  penalty,  pending  puwsuance,  as  pew  Subsec.  32,  section 
II,  of  the  C.  L.  A.  act  1885,  anything  in  this  act  to  the  contwawy 
notwithstanding.  Jarley  Jilke  began  to  silke  for  he  couldn't  get 
home  to  Jelsey  but  ended  with:  He's  got  the  sack  that  helped  him 
moult  instench  of  his  gladsome  rags.  Meagher,  a  naval  rating, 
seated  on  one  of  the  granite  cromlech  setts  of  our  new  fish- 
shambles  for  the  usual  aireating  after  the  ever  popular  act,  with 
whom  were  Questa  and  Puella,  piquante  and  quoite,  (this  had  a 
cold  in  her  brain  while  that  felt  a  sink  in  her  summock,  wit's 
wat,  wot's  wet)  was  encouraged,  although  nearvanashed  himself, 
by  one  of 'his  co-affianced  to  get  your  breath,  Walt,  and  gobbit 
and  when  ther  chidden  by  her  fastra  sastra  to  saddle  up  your 
pance,  Naville,  thus  cor  replied  to  her  other's  thankskissing:  I 
lay  my  two  fingerbuttons,  fiancee  Meagher,  (he  speaks !)  he  was 
to  blame  about  your  two  velvetthighs  up  Horniman's  Hill  —  as 
hook  and  eye  blame  him  or  any  other  piscman.'^  —  but  I  also 
think,  Puellywally,  by  the  siege  of  his  trousers  there  was  some- 
one else  behind  it  —  you  bet  your  boughtem  blarneys  —  about 
their  three  drummers  down  Keysars  Lane.  (Trite !). 

Be  these  meer  marchant  taylor's  fablings  of  a  race  referend 
with  oddman  rex.'^  Is  now  all  seenheard  then  forgotten.'^  Can  it 
was,  one  is  fain  in  this  leaden  age  of  letters  now  to  wit,  that  so 
diversified  outrages  (they  have  still  to  come!)  were  planned  and 
partly  carried  out  against  so  staunch  a  covenanter  if  it  be  true 
than  any  of  those  recorded  ever  took  place  for  many,  we  trow, 
beyessed  to  and  denayed  of,  are  given  to  us  by  some  who  use 
the  truth  but  sparingly  and  we,  on  this  side  ought  to  sorrow  for 
their  pricking  pens  on  that  account.  The  seventh  city,  Urovivla, 

61 


his  citadear  of  refuge,  whither  (would  we  believe  the  laimen  and 
their  counts),  beyond  the  outraved  gales  of  Atreeatic,  changing 
clues  with  a  baggermalster,  the  hejirite  had  fled,  silentioussue- 
meant  under  night's  altosonority,  shipalone,  a  raven  of  the  wave, 
(be  mercy,  Mara!  A  he  whence  Rahoulas!)  from  the  ostmen's 
dirtby  on  the  old  vie,  to  forget  in  expiating  manslaughter  and, 
reberthing  in  remarriment  out  of  dead  seekness  to  devine  previ- 
dence,  (if  you  are  looking  for  the  bilder  deep  your  ear  on  the 
movietone!)  to  league  his  lot,  palm  and  patte,  with  a  papishee. 
For  mine  qvinne  I  thee  giftake  and  bind  my  hosenband  I  thee 
halter.  The  wastobe  land,  a  lottuse  land,  a  luctuous  land,  Emerald- 
illuim,  the  peasant  pastured,  in  which  by  the  fourth  commandment 
with  promise  his  days  apostolic  were  to  be  long  by  the  abundant 
mercy  of  Him  Which  Thundereth  From  On  High,  murmured, 
would  rise  against  him  with  all  which  in  them  were,  franchisab- 
les  and  inhabitands,  astea  as  agora,  helotsphilots,  do  him  hurt, 
poor  jink,  ghostly  following  bodily,  as  were  he  made  a  curse  for 
them,  the  corruptible  lay  quick,  all  saints  of  incorruption  of  an 
holy  nation,  the  common  or  ere-in-garden  castaway,  in  red  re- 
surrection to  condemn  so  they  might  convince  him,  first  pha- 
roah,  Humpheres  Cheops  Exarchas,  of  their  proper  sins.  Busi- 
ness bred  to  speak  with  a  stiff  upper  lip  to  all  men  and  most  occa- 
sions the  Man  we  wot  of  took  little  short  of  fighting  chances  but 
for  all  that  he  or  his  or  his  care  were  subjected  to  the  horrors  of 
the  premier  terror  of  Errorland.  (perorhaps!) 

We  seem  to  us  (the  real  Us!)  to  be  reading  our  Amenti  in  the 
sixth  sealed  chapter  of  the  going  forth  by  black.  It  was  after  the 
show  at  Wednesbury  that  one  tall  man,  humping  a  suspicious 
parcel,  when  returning  late  amid  a  dense  particular  on  his  home 
way  from  the  second  house  of  the  Boore  and  Burgess  Christy 
Menestrels  by  the  old  spot,  Roy's  Corner,  had  a  barkiss  revolver 
placed  to  his  faced  with  the  words:  you're  shot,  major:  by  an  un- 
knowable assailant  (masked)  against  whom  he  had  been  jealous 
over,  Lotta  Crabtree  or  Pomona  Evlyn.  More  than  that  Whenn 
the  Waylayer  (not  a  Lucalizod  diocesan  or  even  of  tlie  Glenda- 
lough  see,  but  hailing  fro'  the  prow  of  Little  Britain),  mention- 

62 


I 

I 


I 

i 


i 


ing  in  a  bytheway  that  he,  the  crawsopper,  had,  in  edition  to 
Reade's  cutless  centiblade,  a  loaded  Hobson's  which  left  only  twin 
alternatives  as,  viceversa,  either  he  would  surely  shoot  her,  the 
aunt,  by  pistol,  (she  could  be  okaysure  of  that!)  or,  failing  of  such, 
bash  in  Patch's  blank  face  beyond  recognition,  pointedly  asked 
with  gaeilish  gall  wodkar  blizzard's  business  Thornton  had  with 
that  Kane's  fender  only  to  be  answered  by  the  aggravated 
assaulted  that  that  that  was  the  snaps  for  him,  Midweeks,  to  sultry 
well  go  and  find  out  if  he  was  showery  well  able.  But  how  trans- 
paringly  nontrue,  gentlewriter!  His  feet  one  is  not  a  tall  man,  not 
at  all,  man.  No  such  parson.  No  such  fender.  No  such  lumber.  No 
such  race.  Was  it  supposedly  in  connection  with  a  girls,  Myramy 
Huey  or  Colores  Archer,  under  Flaggy  Bridge  (for  ann  there  is 
but  one  liv  and  hir  newbridge  is  her  old)  or  to  explode  his 
twelvechamber  and  force  a  shrievalty  entrance  that  the  heavybuilt 
Abelbody  in  a  butcherblue  blouse  from  One  Life  One  Suit  (a 
men's  wear  store),  with  a  most  decisive  bottle  of  single  in  his 
possession,  seized  after  dark  by  the  town  guard  at  Haveyou- 
caught-emerod's  temperance  gateway  was  there  in  a  gate's  way. 

Fifthly,  how  parasoliloquisingly  truetoned  on  his  first  time  of 
hearing  the  wretch's  statement  that,  muttering  Irish,  he  had  had 
had  o'gloriously  a'lot  too  much  hanguest  or  hoshoe  fine  to 
drink  in  the  House  of  Blazes,  the  Parrot  in  Hell,  the  Orange  Tree, 
the  Glibt,  the  Sun,  the  Holy  Lamb  and,  lapse  not  leashed,  in 
Ramitdown's  ship  hotel  since  the  morning  moment  he  could 
dixtinguish  a  white  thread  from  a  black  till  the  engine  of  the 
laws  declosed  unto  Murray  and  was  only  falling  fillthefluthered 
up  against  the  gatestone  pier  which,  with  the  cow's  bonnet 
a' top  o'it,  he  falsetook  for  a  cattlepillar  with  purest  peaceablest 
intentions.  Yet  how  lamely  hobbles  the  hoy  of  his  then  pseudo- 
jocax  axplanation  how,  according  to  his  own  story,  he  was  a 
process  server  and  was  merely  trying  to  open  zozimus  a  bottlop 
stoub  by  mortially  hammering  his  magnum  bonum  (the  curter  the 
club  the  sorer  the  savage)  against  the  bludgey  gate  for  the  boots 
about  the  swan,  Maurice  Behan,  who  hastily  into  his  shoes  with 
nothing  his  hald  barra  tinnteack  and  came  down  with  homp, 

63 


shtemp  and  jumphet  to  the  tiltyard  from  the  wastes  a'sleep  in  his 
obi  ohny  overclothes  or  choker,  attracted  by  the  norse  of  guns 
playing  Delandy  is  cartager  on  the  raglar  rock  to  Dulyn,  said 
war'  prised  safe  in  bed  as  he  dreamed  that  he'd  wealthes  in  mor- 
mon halls  when  wokenp  by  a  fourth  loud  snore  out  of  his  land 
of  byelo  while  hickstrey's  maws  was  grazing  in  the  moonlight 
by  hearing  hammering  on  the  pandywhank  scale  emanating  from 
the  blind  pig  and  anything  like  it  (oonagh!  oonagh!)  in  the 
whole  history  of  the  Mullingcan  Inn  he  never.  This  battering 
babel  allower  the  door  and  sideposts,  he  always  said,  was  not  in 
the  very  remotest  like  the  belzey  babble  of  a  bottle  of  boose 
which  would  not  rouse  him  out  o'  slumber  deep  but  reminded 
him  loads  more  of  the  martiallawsey  marses  of  foreign  musi- 
kants'  instrumongs  or  the  overthrewer  to  the  third  last  days  of 
Pompery,  if  anything.  And  that  after  this  most  nooningless 
knockturn  the  young  reine  came  down  desperate  and  the  old 
liffopotamus  started  ploring  all  over  the  plains,  as  mud  as  she 
cud  be,  ruinating  all  the  bouchers'  schurts  and  the  backers' 
wischandtugs  so  that  be  the  chandeleure  of  the  Rejaneyjailey 
they  were  all  night  wasching  the  waiters  of,  the  weltering  waiters 
off.  Whyte. 

Just  one  moment.  A  pinch  in  time  of  the  ideal,  musketeers! 
Alphos,  Burkos  and  Caramis,  leave  Astrelea  for  the  astrollajerries 
and  for  the  love  of  the  saunces  and  the  honour  of  Keavens  pike 
puddywhackback  to  Pamintul.  And  roll  away  the  reel  world,  the 
reel  world,  the  reel  world!  And  call  all  your  smokeblushes, 
Snowwhite  and  Rosered,  if  you  will  have  the  real  cream !  Now  for 
a  strawberry  frolic!  Filons,  filoosh!  Cherchons  la  flamme!  Famm- 
famm!  Fammfamm! 

Come  on,  ordinary  man  with  that  large  big  nonobli  head,  and 
that  blanko  berbecked  fischial  ekksprezzion  Machinsky  Scapolo- 
polos,  Duzinascu  or  other.  Your  machelar's  mutton  leg's  getting 
musclebound  from  being  too  pulled.  Noah  Beery  weighed  stone 
thousand  one  when  Hazel  was  a  hen.  Now  her  fat's  falling  fast. 
Therefore,  chatbags,  why  not  yours?  There  are  29  sweet  reasons 
why  blossomtime's  the  best.  Elders  fall  for  green  almonds  when 

64 


\^uuJi  roto 


they're  raised  on  bruised  stone  root  ginger  though  it  winters  on 
their  heads  as  if  auctumned  round  their  waistbands.  If  you'd  had 
pains  in  your  hairs  you  wouldn't  look  so  orgibald.  You'd  have 
Colley  Macaires  on  your  lump  of  lead.  Now  listen,  Mr  Leer! 
And  stow  that  sweatyfunnyadams  Simper!  Take  an  old  geeser 
who  calls  on  his  skirt.  Note  his  sleek  hair,  so  elegant,  tableau 
vivant.  He  vows  her  to  be  his  own  honeylamb,  swears  they  will 
be  papa  pals,  by  Sam,  and  share  good  times  way  down  west  in  a 
guaranteed  happy  lovenest  when  May  moon  she  shines  and  they 
twit  twinkle  all  the  night,  combing  the  comet's  tail  up  right  and 
shooting  popguns  at  the  stars.  Creampuffs  all  to  dime!  Every 
nice,  missymackenzies !  For  dear  old  grumpapar,  he's  gone  on 
the  razzledar,  through  gazing  and  crazing  and  blazing  at  the  stars. 
Compree!  She  wants  her  wardrobe  to  hear  from  above  by  return 
with  cash  so  as  she  can  buy  her  Peter  Robinson  trousseau  and  cut 
a  dash  with  Arty,  Bert  or  possibly  Charley  Chance  (who  knows.^) 
so  tolloll  Mr  Hunker  you're  too  dada  for  me  to  dance  (so  off  she 
goes !)  and  that's  how  half  the  gels  in  town  has  got  their  bottom 
drars  while  grumpapar  he's  trying  to  hitch  his  braces  on  to  his 
trars.  But  old  grum  he's  not  so  clean  dippy  between  sweet  you 
and  yum  (not  on  your  life,  boy!  not  in  those  trousers!  not  by  a 
large  jugful!)  for  someplace  on  the  sly,  where  Furphy  he  isn't  by, 
old  grum  has  his  gel  number  two  (bravevow,  our  Grum!)  and  he 
would  like  to  canoodle  her  too  some  part  of  the  time  for  he  is 
downright  fond  of  his  number  one  but  O  he's  fair  mashed  on 
peaches  number  two  so  that  if  he  could  only  canoodle  the  two, 
chivee  chivoo,  all  three  would  feel  genuinely  happy,  it's  as  simple 
as  A.  B.  C,  the  two  mixers,  we  mean,  with  their  cherrybum 
chappy  (for  he  is  simply  shamming  dippy)  if  they  all  were  afloat 
in  a  dreamlifeboat,  hugging  two  by  two  in  his  zoo-doo-you-doo, 
a  tofftoff  for  thee,  missymissy  for  me  and  howcameyou-e'enso  for 
Farber,  in  his  tippy,  upindown  dippy,  tiptoptippy  canoodle,  can 
you.'^  Finny. 

Ack,  ack,  ack.  With  which  clap,  trap  and  soddenment,  three  to 
a  loaf,  our  mutual  friends  the  fender  and  the  bottle  at  the  gate  seem 
to  be  implicitly  in  the  same  bateau,  so  to  singen,  bearing  also 

65 


several  of  the  earmarks  of  design,  for  there  is  in  fact  no  use  in 
putting  a  tooth  in  a  snipery  of  that  sort  and  the  amount  of  all 
those  sort  of  things  which  has  been  going  on  onceaday  in  and 
twiceaday  out  every  other  nachtistag  among  all  kinds  of  pro- 
miscious  individuals  at  all  ages  in  private  homes  and  reeboos 
publikiss  and  allover  all  and  elsewhere  throughout  secular 
sequence  the  country  over  and  overabroad  has  been  particularly 
stupendous.  To  be  continued.  Federals'  Uniteds'  Transports' 
Unions'  for  Exultations'  of  Triumphants'  Ecstasies. 

But  resuming  inquiries.  Will  it  ever  be  next  morning  the  postal 
unionist's  (officially  called  carrier's,  Letters  Scotch,  Limited) 
strange  fate  (Fierceendgiddyex  he's  hight,  d.e.,  the  losel  that 
bucks  around  missivemaids'  gummibacks)  to  hand  in  a  huge 
chain  envelope,  written  in  seven  divers  stages  of  ink,  from  blanch- 
essance  to  lavandaiette,  every  pothook  and  pancrook  bespaking 
the  wisherwife,  superscribed  and  subpencilled  by  yours  A  Laugh- 
able Party,  with  afterwite,  S.A.G.,  to  Hyde  and  Cheek,  Eden- 
berry,  Dubblenn,  WC.'^  Will  whatever  will  be  written  in  lappish 
language  with  inbursts  of  Maggyer  always  seem  semposed,  black 
looking  white  and  white  guarding  black,  in  that  siamixed  twoa- 
talk  used  twist  stern  swift  and  jolly  roger.'*  Will  it  bright  upon  us, 
nightie,  and  we  plunging  to  our  plight?  Well,  it  might  now,  mircle, 
so  it  light.  Always  and  ever  till  Cox's  wife,  twice  Mrs  Hahn,  pokes 
her  beak  into  the  matter  with  Owen  K.  after  her,  to  see  whawa 
smutter  after,  will  this  kiribis  pouch  filled  with  litterish  frag- 
ments lurk  dormant  in  the  paunch  of  that  halpbrother  of  a  herm, 
a  pillarbox? 

The  coffin,  a  triumph  of  the  illusionist's  art,  at  first  blench 
naturally  taken  for  a  handharp  (it  is  handwarp  to  tristinguish 
jubabe  from  jabule  or  either  from  tubote  when  all  three  have  just 
been  invened)  had  been  removed  from  the  hardware  premises  of 
Oetzmann  and  Nephew,  a  noted  house  of  the  gonemo^t  west, 
which  in  the  natural  course  of  all  things  continues  to  supply 
funeral  requisites  of  every  needed  description.  Why  needed, 
though?  Indeed  needed  (wouldn't  you  feel  like  rattanfowl  if  you 
hadn't  the  oscar!)  because  the  flash  brides  or  bride  in  their  lily 

66 


-  T 17 


\ 


i 


boleros  one  games  with  at  the  Nivynubies'  finery  ball  and  your 
upright  grooms  that  always  come  right  up  with  you  (and  by  jingo 
when  they  do!)  what  else  in  this  mortal  world,  now  ours,  when 
meet  there  night,  mid  their  nackt,  me  there  naket,  made  their 
nought  the  hour  strikes,  would  bring  them  rightcame  back  in  the 
flesh,  thumbs  down,  to  their  orses  and  their  hashes. 

To  proceed.  We  might  leave  that  nitrience  of  oxagiants  to  take 
its  free  of  the  air  and  just  analectralyse  that  very  chymerical  com- 
bination, the  gasbag  where  the  warderworks.  And  try  to  pour 
somour  heiterscene  up  thealmostfere.  In  the  bottled  heliose  case 
continuing,  Long  Lally  Tobkids,  the  special,  sporting  a  fine  breast 
of  medals,  and  a  conscientious  scripturereader  to  boot  in  the  brick 
and  tin  choorch  round  the  coroner,  swore  like  a  Norewheezian 
tailliur  on  the  stand  before  the  proper  functionary  that  he  was  up 
against  a  right  querrshnorrt  of  a  mand  in  the  butcher  of  the  blues 
who,  he  guntinued,  on  last  epening  after  delivering  some  car- 
casses mattonchepps  and  meatjutes  on  behalf  of  Messrs  Otto 
Sands  and  Eastman,  Limericked,  Victuallers,  went  and,  with  his 
unmitigated  astonissment,  hickicked  at  the  dun  and  dorass  against 
all  the  runes  and,  when  challenged  about  the  pretended  hick  (it 
was  kickup  and  down  with  him)  on  his  solemn  by  the  imputant 
imputed,  said  simply:  I  appop  pie  oath,  Phillyps  Captain.  You 
did,  as  I  sostressed  before.  You  are  deepknee  in  error,  sir.  Madam 
Tomkins,  let  me  then  tell  you,  replied  with  a  gentlewomanly 
salaam  MackPartland,  (the  meatman's  family,  and  the  oldest  in 
the  world  except  nick,  name.)  And  Phelps  was  flayful  with  his 
peeler.  But  his  phizz  fell. 

Now  to  the  obverse.  From  velveteens  to  dimities  is  barely  a 
fivefinger  span  and  hence  these  camelback  excesses  are  thought 
to  have  been  instigated  by  one  or  either  of  the  causing  causes  of 
all,  those  rushy  hollow  heroines  in  their  skirtsleeves,  be  she  ma- 
gretta  be  she  the  posque.  Oh!  Oh!  Because  it  is  a  horrible  thing 
to  have  to  say  to  say  to  day  but  one  dilalah,  Lupita  Lorette,  short- 
ly after  in  a  fit  of  the  unexpectednesses  drank  carbolic  with  all 
her  dear  placid  life  before  her  and  paled  off  while  the  other 
soiled  dove  that's  her  sister-in-love,  Luperca  Latouche,  finding 

67 


one  day  while  dodging  chores  that  she  stripped  teasily  for  binocu- 
lar man  and  that  her  jambs  were  jimpjoyed  to  see  each  other,  the 
nautchy  girly  soon  found  her  fruitful  hat  too  small  for  her  and 
rapidly  taking  time,  look,  she  rapidly  took  to  necking,  partying 
and  selling  her  spare  favours  in  the  haymow  or  in  lumber  closets 
or  in  the  greenawn  ad  huck  (there  are  certain  intimacies  in  all 
ladies*  lavastories  we  just  lease  to  imagination)  or  in  the  sweet 
churchyard  close  itself  for  a  bit  of  soft  coal  or  an  array  of  thin 
trunks,  serving  whom  in  fine  that  same  hot  coney  a  la  Zingara 
which  our  own  little  Graunya  of  the  chilired  cheeks  dished  up 
to  the  greatsire  of  Oscar,  that  son  of  a  Coole.  Houri  of  the  coast 
of  emerald,  arrah  of  the  lacessive  poghue,  Aslim-all-Muslim,  the 
resigned  to  her  surrender,  did  not  she,  come  leinster's  even,  true 
dotter  of  a  dearmud,  (her  pitch  was  Forty  Steps  and  his  perch  old 
CromwelFs  Quarters)  with  so  valkirry  a  licence  as  sent  many  a 
poor  pucker  packing  to  perdition,  again  and  again,  ay,  and  again 
sfidare  him,  tease  fido,  eh  tease  fido,  eh  eh  tease  fido,  toos  top- 
ples topple,  stop,  dug  of  a  dog  of  a  dgiaour,  ye!  Angealousmei ! 
And  did  not  he,  like  Arcoforty,  farfar  off  Bissavolo,  missbrand 
her  behaveyous  with  iridescent  huecry  of  down  right  mean  false 
sop  lap  sick  dope?  Tawfulsdreck !  A  reine  of  the  shee,  a  shebeen 
quean,  a  queen  of  pranks.  A  kingly  man,  of  royal  mien,  regally 
robed,  exalted  be  his  glory!  So  gave  so  take:  Now  not,  not  now! 
He  would  just  a  min.  Suffering  trumpet!  He  thought  he  want. 
Whath?  Hear,  O  hear,  living  of  the  land!  Hungreb,  dead  era, 
hark!  He  hea,  eyes  ravenous  on  her  lippling  lills.  He  hear  her  voi 
of  day  gon  by.  He  hears!  Zay,  zay,  zay!  But,  by  the  beer  of  his 
profit,  he  cannot  answer.  Upterputty  till  rise  and  shine !  Nor  needs 
none  shaft  ne  stele  from  Phenicia  or  Little  Asia  to  obelise  on 
the  spout,  neither  pobalclock  neither  folksstone,  nor  sunkenness 
in  Tomar's  Wood  to  bewray  how  erpressgangs  score  off  the  rued. 
The  mouth  that  tells  not  will  ever  attract  the  unthinking  tongue 
and  so  long  as  the  obseen  draws  theirs  which  hear  not  so  long 
till  allearth's  dumbnation  shall  the  blind  lead  the  deaf.  Tatcho, 
tawney  yeeklings !  The  column  of  lumps  lends  the  pattrin  of  the 
leaves  behind  us.  If  violence  to  life,  limb  and  chattels,  often  as 

68 


i 


not,  has  been  the  expression,  direct  or  through  an  agent  male,  of 
womanhid  offended,  (ah!  ah!),  has  not  levy  of  black  mail  from 
the  times  the  fairies  were  in  it,  and  fain  for  wilde  erthe  blothoms 
followed  an  impressive  private  reputation  for  whispered  sins? 

Now  by  memory  inspired,  turn  wheel  again  to  the  whole  of 
the  wall.  Where  Gyant  Blyant  fronts  Peannlueamoore  There  was 
once  upon  a  wall  and  a  hooghoog  wall  a  was  and  such  a  wall- 
hole  did  exist.  Ere  ore  or  ire  in  Aaarlund.  Or  you  Dair's  Hair  or 
you  Diggin  Mosses  or  your  horde  of  orts  and  oriorts  to  garble 
a  garthen  of  Odin  and  the  lost  paladays  when  all  the  eddams  ended 
with  aves.  Armen?  The  doun  is  theirs  and  still  to  see  for  menags 
if  he  strikes  a  lousaforitch  and  we'll  come  to  those  baregazed 
shoeshines  if  you  just  shoodov  a  second.  And  let  oggs  be  good 
old  gaggles  and  Isther  Estarr  play  Yesther  Asterr.  In  the  drema 
of  Sorestost  Areas,  Diseased.  A  stonehinged  gate  then  was  for 
another  thing  while  the  suroptimist  had  bought  and  enlarged 
that  shack  under  fair  rental  of  one  yearlyng  sheep,  (prime)  value 
of  sixpence,  and  one  small  yearlyng  goat  (cadet)  value  of  eight- 
pence,  to  grow  old  and  happy  (hogg  it  and  kidd  him)  for  the  re- 
minants  of  his  years;  and  when  everything  was  got  up  for  the 
purpose  he  put  an  applegate  on  the  place  by  no  means  as  some 
pretext  a  bedstead  in  loo  thereof  to  keep  out  donkeys  (the  pig- 
dirt  hanging  from  the  jags  to  this  hour  makes  that  clear)  and  just 
thenabouts  the  iron  gape,  by  old  custom  left  open  to  prevent 
the  cats  from  getting  at  the  gout,  was  triplepatlockt  on  him  on 
purpose  by  his  faithful  poorters  to  keep  him  inside  probably  and 
possibly  enaunter  he  felt  like  sticking  out  his  chest  too  far  and 
tempting  gracious  providence  by  a  stroll  on  the  peoplade's  egg- 
day,  unused  as  he  was  yet  to  being  freely  clodded. 

O,  by  the  by,  lets  wee  brag  of  praties,  it  ought  to  be  always 
remembered  in  connection  with  what  has  gone  before  that  there 
was  a  northroomer,  Herr  Betreffender,  out  for  his  zimmer  hole- 
digs,  digging  in  number  32  at  the  Rum  and  Puncheon  (Branch  of 
Dirty  Dick's  free  house)  in  Laxlip  (where  the  Sockeye  Sammons 
were  stopping  at  the  time  orange  fasting)  prior  to  that,  a  Kom- 
merzial  (Gorbotipacco,  he  was  wreaking  like  Zentral  Oylrubber) 

69 


from  Osterich,  the  U.S.E.  paying  (Gaul  save  the  mark!)  ii/-  in 
the  week  (Gosh,  these  wholly  romads!)  of  conscience  money  in 
the  first  deal  of  Yuly  wheil  he  was,  swishing  beesnest  with  bles- 
sure,  and  swobbing  broguen  eeriesh  myth  brockendootsch,  mak- 
ing his  reporterage  on  Der  Fall  Adams  for  the  Frankofurto  Siding, 
a  Fastland  payrodicule,  and  er,  consstated  that  one  had  on  him 
the  Lynn  O'Brien,  a  meltoned  lammswolle,  disturbed,  and  wider 
he  might  the  same  zurichschicken  other  he  would,  with  tosend 
and  obertosend  tonnowatters,  one  monkey's  damages  become. 
Now  you  must  know,  franksman,  to  make  a  heart  of  glass,  that 
the  game  of  gaze  and  bandstand  butchery  was  merely  a  Patsy 
O' Strap  tissue  of  threats  and  obuses  such  as  roebucks  raugh  at 
pinnacle's  peak  and  after  this  sort.  Humphrey's  unsolicited  visitor, 
Davy  or  Titus,  on  a  burgley's  clan  march  from  the  middle  west, 
a  hikely  excellent  crude  man  about  road  who  knew  his  Bullfoost 
Mountains  like  a  starling  bierd,  after  doing  a  long  dance  untidled 
to  Cloudy  Green,  deposend  his  bockstump  on  the  waityoumay- 
wantme,  after  having  blew  some  quaker's  (for  you!  Oates!)  in 
through  the  houseking's  keyhole  to  attract  attention,  bleated 
through  the  gale  outside  which  the  tairor  of  his  clothes  was  hog- 
callering,  first,  be  the  hirsuiter,  that  he  would  break  his  bulshey- 
wigger's  head  for  him,  next,  be  the  heeltapper,  that  he  would 
break  the  gage  over  his  lankyduckling  head  the  same  way  he 
would  crack  a  nut  with  a  monkeywrench  and,  last  of  all,  be  the 
stirabouter,  that  he  would  give  him  his  (or  theumperom's  or  any- 
bloody  else's)  thickerthanwater  to  drink  and  his  bleday  steppe- 
brodhar's  into  the  bucket.  He  demanded  more  wood  alcohol  to 
pitch  in  with,  alleging  that  his  granfather's  was  all  taxis  and  that 
it  was  only  after  ten  o'connell,  and  this  his  isbar  was  a  public 
oven  for  the  sake  of  irsk  irskusky,  and  then,  not  easily  dis- 
couraged, opened  the  wrathfloods  of  his  atillarery  and  went  on  at 
a  wicked  rate,  weathering  against  him  in  mooxed  metaphores 
from  eleven  thirty  to  two  in  the  afternoon  without  even  a  lunch- 
eonette interval  for  House,  son  of  Clod,  to  come  out,  you  jew- 
beggar,  to  be  Executed  Amen.  Earwicker,  that  patternmind,  that 
paradigmatic  ear,  receptoretentive  as  his  of  Dionysius,  longsuffer- 

70 


I 


ing  although  whitening  under  restraint  in  the  sititout  corner  of 
his  conservatory,  behind  faminebuilt  walls,  his  thermos  flask  and 
ripidian  flabel  by  his  side  and  a  walrus  whiskerbristle  for  a  tusk- 
pick,  compiled,  while  he  mourned  the  flight  of  his  wild  guineese, 
a  long  list  (now  feared  in  part  lost)  to  be  kept  on  file  of  all  abusive 
names  he  was  called  (we  have  been  compelled  for  the  rejoicement 
of  foinne  loidies  ind  the  humours  of  Milltown  etcetera  by  Joseph- 
ine Brewster  in  the  collision  known  as  Contrastations  with  Inker- 
mann  and  so  on  and  sononward,  lacies  in  loo  water,  flee,  celestials, 
