of  copperas  had  fallen  off  him  quatz  unaccountably  like  the 
chrystalisations  of  Alum  on  Even  while  he  was  trying  for  to  stick 
fire  to  himcell,  (in  feacht  he  was  dripping  as  he  found  upon  strip- 
ping for  a  pipkin  ofmalt  as  he  feared  the  coold  raine)  it  was 
attempted  by  the  crown  (P.C.  Robort)  to  show  that  King,  elois 
Crowbar,  once  known  as  Meleky,  impersonating  a  climbing  boy, 
rubbed  some  pixes  of  any  luvial  peatsmoor  o'er  his  face,  plucks 
and  pussas,  with  a  clanetourf  as  the  best  means  of  disguising 
himself  and  was  to  the  middlewhite  fair  in  Mudford  of  a  Thoors- 
day,  feishts  of  Peeler  and  Pole,  under  the  illassumed  names  of 
Tykingfest  and  Rabworc  picked  by  him  and  Anthony  out  of  a 
tellafun  book,  ellegedly  with  a  pedigree  pig  (unlicensed)  and  a 
hyacinth.  They  were  on  that  sea  by  the  plain  of  Ir  nine  hundred 
and  ninetynine  years  and  they  never  cried  crack  or  ceased  from 
regular  paddlewicking  till  that  they  landed  their  two  and  a 
trifling  selves,  amadst  camel  and  ass,  greybeard  and  suckling, 
priest  and  pauper,  matrmatron  and  merrymeg,  into  the  meddle 
of  the  mudstorm.  The  gathering,  convened  by  the  Irish  Angri- 
cultural  and  Prepostoral  Ouraganisations,  to  help  the  Irish  muck 
to  look  his  brother  dane  in  the  face  and  attended  thanks  to 
Larry  by  large  numbers,  of  christies  and  jew's  totems,  tospite  of 
the  deluge,  was  distinctly  of  a  scattery  kind  when  the  bally- 
bricken  he  could  get  no  good  of,  after  cockofthewalking  through 
a  few  fancyfought  mains  ate  some  of  the  doorweg,  the  pikey 
later  selling  the  gentleman  ratepayer  because  she,  Francie's  sister, 
that  is  to  say,  ate  a  whole  side  of  his  (the  animal's)  sty,  on  a 
struggle  Street,  Qui  Sta  Troia^  in  order  to  pay  off,  hiss  or  lick, 
six  doubloons  fifteen  arrears  of  his,  the  villain's  not  the  rumbler's 
rent. 

Remarkable  evidence  was  given,  anon,  by  an  eye,  ear,  nose 
and  throat  witness,  whom  Wesleyan  chapelgoers  suspected  of 
being  a  plain  clothes  priest  W.P.,  situate  at  Nullnull,  Medical 
Square,  who,  upon  letting  down  his  rice  and  peacegreen  cover- 
disk  and  having  been  sullenly  cautioned  against  yawning  while 

86 


I 


i' 


being  grilled,  smiled  (he  had  had  a  onebumper  at  parting  from 
Mrs  Molroe  in  the  morning)  and  stated  to  his  eliciter  under  his 
morse  mustaccents  (gobbless !)  that  he  slept  with  a  bonafides  and 
that  he  would  be  there  to  remember  the  filth  of  November, 
hatinaring,  rowdy  O,  which,  with  the  jiboulees  of  Juno  and  the 
dates  of  ould  lanxiety,  was  going,  please  the  Rainmaker,  to 
decembs  within  the  ephemerides  of  profane  history,  all  one  with 
Tournay,  Yetstoslay  and  Temorah,  and  one  thing  which  would 
pigstickularly  strike  a  person  of  such  sorely  tried  observational 
powers  as  Sam,  him  and  Moffat,  though  theirs  not  to  reason  why, 
the  striking  thing  about  it  was  that  he  was  patrified  to  see,  hear, 
taste  and  smell,  as  his  time  of  night,  how  Hyacinth  O'Donnell, 
B.A.,  described  in  the  calendar  as  a  mixer  and  wordpainter,  with 
part  of  a  sivispacem  (Gaeltact  for  dungfork)  on  the  fair  green 
at  the  hour  of  twenty-four  o'clock  sought  (the  bullycassidy  of 
the  friedhoffer!)  to  sack,  sock,  stab  and  slaughter  singlehanded 
another  two  of  the  old  kings,  Gush  Mac  Gale  and  Roaring 
O'Crian,  Jr.,  both  changelings,  unlucalised,  of  no  address  and 
in  noncommunicables,  between  him  and  whom,  ever  since  wal- 
lops before  the  Mise  of  Lewes,  bad  blood  existed  on  the  ground 
of  the  boer's  trespass  on  the  bull  or  because  he  firstparted  his 
polarbeeber  hair  in  twoways,  or  because  they  were  creepfoxed 
andt  grousuppers  over  a  nippy  in  a  noveletta,  or  because  they 
could  not  say  meace,  (mute  and  daft)  meathe.  The  litigants,  he 
said,  local  congsmen  and  donalds,  kings  of  the  arans  and  the  dalk- 
eys,  kings  of  mud  and  tory,  even  the  goat  king  of  Killorglin, 
were  egged  on  by  their  supporters  in  the  shape  of  better  wo  men 
with  bowstrung  hair  of  Carrothagenuine  ruddiness,  waving  crim- 
son petties  and  screaming  from  Isod's  towertop.  There  were 
cries  from  the  thicksets  in  court  and  from  the  macdublins  on  the 
bohernabreen  of:  Mind  the  bank  from  Banagher,  Mick,  sir!  Pro- 
dooce  O'Donner.  Ay!  Exhibit  his  relics!  Bu!  Use  the  tongue 
mor!  Give  lip  less!  But  it  oozed  out  in  Deadman's  Dark  Scenery 
Court  through  crossexanimation  of  the  casehardened  testis  that 
when  and  where  that  knife  of  knifes  the  treepartied  ambush  was 
laid  (roughly  spouting  around  half  hours  'twixt  dusk  in  dawn, 

87 


by  Waierhose's  Meddle  Europeic  Time,  near  Stop  and  Think, 
high  chief  evervirens  and  only  abfalltree  in  auld  the  land)  there 
was  not  as  much  light  from  the  widowed  moon  as  would  dim  a 
child's  altar.  The  mixer,  accordingly,  was  bluntly  broached,  and 
in  the  best  basel  to  boot,  as  to  whether  he  was  one  of  those 
lucky  cocks  for  whom  the  audible-visible-gnosible-edible  world 
existed.  That  he  was  only  too  cognitively  conatively  cogitabun- 
dantly  sure  of  it  because,  living,  loving,  breathing  and  sleeping 
morphomelosophopancreates,  as  he  most  significantly  did,  when- 
ever he  thought  he  heard  he  saw  he  felt  he  made  a  bell  clipper- 
clipperclipperclipper.  Whether  he  was  practically  sure  too  of  his 
lugs  and  truies  names  in  this  king  and  blouseman  business?  That 
he  was  pediculously  so.  Certified.^  As  cad  could  be.  Be  lying !  Be 
the  lonee  I  will.  It  was  Morbus  O*  Somebody.'^  A' Quite.  Szer- 
day's  Son.'*  A  satyr  in  weddens.  And  how  did  the  greeneyed 
mister  arrive  at  the  B.A..'*  That  it  was  like  his  poll.  A  cross- 
grained  trapper  with  murty  odd  oogs,  awflorated  ares,  inquiline 
nase  and  a  twithcherous  mouph.'*  He  would  be.  Who  could  bit 
you  att  to  a  tenyerdfuul  when  aastalled,'^  Ballera  jobbera.  Some 
majar  bore  too.'*  Iguines.  And  with  tumblerous  legs,  redipnomi- 
nated  Helmingham  Erchenwyne  Rutter  Egbert  Crumwall  Odin 
Maximus  Esme  Saxon  Esa  Vercingetorix  Ethelwulf  Rupprecht 
Ydwalla  Bentley  Osmund  Dysart  Yggdrasselmann.'^  Holy  Saint 
Eiffel,  the  very  phoenix!  It  was  Chudley  Magnall  once  more 
between  the  deffodates  and  the  dumb  scene.'*  The  two  childspies 
waapreesing  him  auza  de  Vologue  but  the  renting  of  his  rock 
was  from  the  three  wicked  Vuncouverers  Forests  bent  down 
awhits,  arthou  sure.'*  Yubeti,  Cumbilum  comes!  One  of  the  ox- 
men's  thingabossers,  hvad.'*  And  had  he  been  refresqued  by  the 
founts  of  bounty  playing  there  —  is  —  a  —  pain  —  aleland  in 
Long's  gourgling  barral.'^  A  loss  of  Lorded  ward  and  a  lack  of  sir- 
philip  a  surgeonet  showeradown  could  suck  more  gargling 
bubbles  out  of  thejfive  lamps  in  Portterand's  praise.  Wirrgeling 
and  maries.'*  As  whose  wouldn't,  laving  his  leaftime  in  Black- 
pool. But,  of  course,  he  could  call  himself  Tem,  too,  if  he  had 
time  to.'^  You  butt  he  could  anytom.  When  he  pleased?  Win  and 


88 


jl 
i 


I 


place.  A  stoker  temptated  by  evesdripping  aginst  the  driver  who 
was  a  witness  as  well?  Sacred  avatar,  how  the  devil  did  they 
guess  it!  Two  dreamyums  in  one  dromium?  Yes  and  no  error. 
And  both  as  like  as  a  duel  of  lentils?  Peacisely.  So  he  was  pelted 
out  of  the  coram  populo,  was  he?  Be  the  powers  that  be  he  was. 
The  prince  in  principel  should  not  expose  his  person?  Mac- 
chevuole!  Rooskayman  kamerad?  Sooner  Gallwegian  he  would 
say.  Not  unintoxicated,  fair  witness?  Drunk  as  a  fishup.  Askt  to 
whether  she  minded  whither  he  smuked?  Not  if  he  barkst  into 
phlegms.  Anent  his  ajaciulations  to  his  Crosscann  Lorne,  cossa? 
It  was  corso  in  cursu  on  coarser  again.  The  gracious  miss  was 
we  not  doubt  sensible  how  yellowatty  on  the  forx  was  altered? 
That  she  esually  was,  O'Dowd  me  not!  As  to  his  religion,  if 
any?  It  was  the  see-you-Sunday  sort.  Exactly  what  he  meant  by 
a  pederast  prig?  Bejacob's,  just  a  gent  who  prayed  his  lent.  And 
if  middleclassed  portavorous  was  a  usual  beast?  Bynight  as  useful 
as  a  vomit  to  a  shorn  man.  If  he  had  rognarised  dtheir  gcourts 
marsheyls?  Dthat  nday  in  ndays  he  had.  Lindendelly,  coke  or 
skilllies  spell  me  gart  without  a  gate?  Harlyadrope.  The  grazing » 
rights  (Mrs  Magistra  Martinetta)  expired  with  the  expiry  of  the 
goat's  sire,  if  they  were  not  mistaken?  That  he  exactly  could  not 
tell  the  worshipfuls  but  his  mother-in- waders  had  the  recipis  for 
the  price  of  the  coffin  and  that  he  was  there  to  tell  them  that 
herself  was  the  velocipede  that  could  tell  them  kitcat.  A  maun- 
darin  tongue  in  a  pounderin  jowl?  Father  ourder  about  the 
mathers  of  prenanciation.  Distributary  endings?  And  we  recom- 
mends. Quare  hiTcum?  No  answer.  Unde  gentium  fe  , , No  ah. 
Are  you  not  danzzling  on  the  age  of  a  vulcano?  Siar,  I  am  deed. 
And  how  olid  of  him?  He  was  intendant  to  study  pulu.  Which 
was  meant  in  a  shirt  of  two  shifts  macoghamade  or  up  Finn, 
threehatted  ladder?  That  a  head  in  thighs  under  a  bush  at  the 
sunface  would  bait  a  serpent  to  a  millrace  through  the  heather. 
Arm  bird  colour  defdum  ethnic  fort  perharps?  Sure  and  glomsk 
handy  jotalpheson  as  well.  Hokey  jasons,  then,  in  a  pigeegeeses? 
On  a  pontiff's  order  as  ture  as  there's  an  ital  on  atac.  As  a  gololy 
bit  to  joss?  Leally  and  tululy.  But,  why  this  hankowchaff  and 

89 


whence  this  second  tone,  son-yet-sun?  He  had  the  cowtaw  in  his 
buxers  flay  of  face.  So  this  that  Solasistras,  setting  odds  evens  at 
defiance,  took  the  laud  from  Labouriter?  What  displaced  Tob, 
Dilke  and  Halley,  not  been  greatly  in  love  with  the  game.  And, 
changing  the  venders,  from  the  king's  head  to  the  republican's 
arms,  as  to  the  pugnaxities  evinxed  from  flagfall  to  antepost 
during  the  effrays  round  fatherthyme's  beckside  and  the  regents 
in  the  plantsown  raining,  with  the  skiddystars  and  the  morkern- 
windup,  how  they  appealed  to  him  then.^  That  it  was  wildfires 
night  on  all  the  bettygallaghers.  Mickmichael's  soords  shrieking 
shrecks  through  the  wilkinses  and  neckanicholas'  toastingforks 
pricking  prongs  up  the  tunnybladders.  Let  there  be  fight.'^  And 
there  was.  Foght.  On  the  site  of  the  Angel's,  you  said.'^  Guinney's 
Gap,  he  said,  between  what  they  said  and  the  pussykitties.  In  the 
middle  of  the  garth,  then.^  That  they  mushn't  toucht  it.  The  de- 
voted couple  was  or  were  only  two  disappainted  solicitresses  on 
the  job  of  the  unfortunate  class  on  Saturn's  mountain  fort.'^  That 
was  about  it,  jah!  And  Camellus  then  said  to  Gemellus:  I  should 
know  you?  Parfaitly.  And  Gemellus  then  said  to  Camellus:  Yes, 
your  brother.^  Obsolutely.  And  if  it  was  all  about  that,  egregious 
sir.'^  About  that  and  the  other.  If  he  was  not  alluding  to  the  whole 
in  the  wall.'^  That  he  was  when  he  was  not  eluding  from  the  whole 
of  the  woman.  Briefly,  how  such  beginall  finally  struck  him  now.'^ 
Like  the  crack  that  bruck  the  bank  in  Multifarnham.  Whether  he 
fell  in  with  what  they  meant.'*  Cursed  that  he  suppoxed  he  did. 
Thos  Thoris,  Thomar's  Thom.'^  The  rudacist  rotter  in  Roebuck- 
dom.  Surtopical.'^  And  subhuman.  If  it  was,  in  yappanoise  lan- 
guage, ach  bad  clap.'^  Oo!  Ah!  Augs  and  ohrs  with  Rhian  O'- 
kehley  to  put  it  tertianly,  we  wrong .'^  Shocking!  Such  as  turly 
pearced  our  realty's  that  he  might,  that  he  might  never,  that  he 
might  never  that  night?  Treely  and  rurally.  Bladyughfoulmoeck- 
lenburgwhurawhorascortastrumpapomanennykocksapastippata  - 
ppatupperstrippuckputtanach,  eh?  You  have  it  alright. 

Meirdreach  an  Oincuish !  But  a  new  complexion  was  put  upon 
the  matter  when  to  the  perplexedly  uncondemnatory  bench 
(whereon  punic  judgeship  strove  with  penal  law)  the  senior 

90 


6^ 


king  of  all,  Pegger  Festy,  as  soon  as  the  outer  layer  of  stuccko- 
muck  had  been  removed  at  the  request  of  a  few  live  jurors, 
declared  in  a  loudburst  of  poesy,  through  his  Brythonic  inter- 
preter on  his  oath,  mhuith  peisth  mhuise  as  fearra  bheura  muirre 
hriosmas,  whereas  take  notice  be  the  relics  of  the  bones  of  the 
story  bouchal  that  was  ate  be  Cliopatrick  (the  sow)  princess 
of  parked  porkers,  afore  God  and  all  their  honours  and  king's 
commons  that,  what  he  would  swear  to  the  Tierney  of  Dundal- 
gan  or  any  other  Tierney,  yif  live  thurkells  folloged  him  about 
sure  that  was  no  steal  and  that,  nevertheless,  what  was  deposited 
from  that  eyebold  earbig  noseknaving  gutthroat,  he  did  not  fire 
a  stone  either  before  or  after  he  was  bom  down  and  up  to  that 
time.  And,  incidentalising  that  they  might  talk  about  Markarthy 
or  they  might  walk  to  Baalastartey  or  they  might  join  the  nabour 
party  and  come  on  to  Porterfeud  this  the  sockdologer  had  the 
neck  to  endorse  with  the  head  bowed  on  him  over  his  outturned 
noreaster  by  protesting  to  his  lipreaders  with  a  justbeencleaned 
barefacedness,  abeam  of  moonlight's  hope,  in  the  same  trelawney 
what  he  would  impart,  pleas  bench,  to  the  Llwyd  Josus  and  the 
gentlemen  in  Jury's  and  the  four  of  Masterers  who  had  been  all 
those  yarns  yearning  for  that  good  one  about  why  he  left 
Dublin,  that,  amreeta  beaker  coddling  doom,  as  an  Inishman  was 
as  good  as  any  cantonnatal,  if  he  was  to  parish  by  the  market  steak 
before  the  dorming  of  the  mawn,  he  skuld  never  ask  to  see  sight  or 
light  of  this  world  or  the  other  world  or  any  either  world,  of  Tyre- 
nan- Og,  as  true  as  he  was  there  in  that  jackabox  that  minute,  or 
wield  or  wind  (no  thanks  t'yous  1)  the  inexousthausthible  wassail- 
horn  tot  of  iskybaush  the  hailth  up  the  wailth  of  the  endknown  ab- 
god  of  the  fire  of  the  moving  way  of  the  hawks  with  his  heroes  in 
Warhorror  if  ever  in  all  his  exchequered  career  he  up  or  lave  a 
chancery  hand  to  take  or  throw  the  sign  of  a  mortal  stick  or  stone 
at  man,  yoelamb  or  salvation  army  either  before  or  after  being 
puptised  down  to  that  most  holy  and  every  blessed  hour.  Here, 
upon  the  halfkneed  castleknocker's  attempting  kithoguishly  to 
lilt  his  holymess  the  paws  and  make  the  sign  of  the  Roman  God- 
helic  faix,  (Xaroshie,  zdrst!  —  in  his  excitement  the  laddo  had 

91 


broken  exthro  Castilian  into  which  the  whole  audience  perse- 
guired  and  pursuited  him  olla  podridd)  outbroke  much  yellach- 
ters  from  owners  in  the  heall  (Ha!)  in  which,  under  the  mollifi- 
cation of  methaglin,  the  testifighter  reluctingly,  but  with  ever  so 
ladylike  indecorum,  joined.  (Ha!  Ha!) 

The  hilariohoot  of  Pegger's  Windup  cumjustled  as  neatly 
with  the  tristitone  of  the  Wet  Pinter's  as  were  they  isce  et  ilk 
equals  of  opposites,  evolved  by  a  onesame  power  of  nature  or  of 
spirit,  iste^  as  the  sole  condition  and  means  of  its  himundher 
manifestation  and  polarised  for  reunion  by  the  symphysis  of 
their  antipathies.  Distinctly  different  were  their  duasdestinies. 
Whereas  the  maidies  of  the  bar,  (a  pairless  trentene,  a  lunarised 
score)  when  the  eranthus  myrrmyrred:  Show'm  the  Posed: 
fluttered  and  flattered  around  the  willingly  pressed,  nominating 
him  for  the  swiney  prize,  complimenting  him,  the  captivating 
youth,  on  his  having  all  his  senses  about  him,  stincking  thyacinths 
through  his  curls  (O  feen!  O  deur!)  and  bringing  busses  to  his 
cheeks,  their  masculine  Oirisher  Rose  (his  neece  cleur!),  and 
legando  round  his  nice  new  neck  for  him  and  pizzicagnoling  his 
woolywags,  with  their  dindy  dandy  sugar  de  candy  mechree  me 
postheen  flowns  courier  to  belive  them  of  all  his  untiring  young 
dames  and  send  treats  in  their  times.  Ymen.  But  it  was  not  un- 
observed of  those  presents,  their  worships,  how,  of  one  among 
all,  her  deputised  to  defeme  him  by  the  Lunar  Sisters'  Celibacy 
Club,  a  lovelooking  leapgirl,  all  all  alonely,  Gentia  Gemma  of  the 
Makegiddyculling  Reeks,  he,  wan  and  pale  in  his  unmixed  admir- 
ation, seemed  blindly,  mutely,  tastelessly,  tactlessly,  innamorate 
with  heruponhim  in  shining  aminglement,  the  shaym  of  his  hisu 
shifting  into  the  shimmering  of  her  hers,  (youthsy,  beautsy,  hee's 
her  chap  and  shey'll  tell  memmas  when  she  gays  whom)  till  the 
wild  wishwish  of  her  sheeshea  melted  most  musically  mid  the 
dark  deepdeep  of  his  shayshaun. 

And  whereas  distracted  (for  was  not  just  this  in  effect  which 
had  just  caused  that  the  effect  of  that  which  it  had  caused  to  oc- 
cur?) the  four  justicers  laid  their  wigs  together,  Untius,  Mun- 
cius,  Punchus  and  Pylax  but  could  do  no  worse  than  promulgate 

92 


their  standing  verdict  of  Nolans  Brumans  whereoneafter  King, 
having  murdered  all  the  English  he  knew,  picked  out  his  pockets 
and  left  the  tribunal  scotfree,  trailing  his  Tommeylommey's  tunic 
in  his  hurry,  thereinunder  proudly  showing  off  the  blink  pitch  to 
his  britgits  to  prove  himself  (an't  plase  yous!)  a  rael  genteel.  To 
the  Switz  bobbyguard's  curial  but  courtlike:  Commodore  valley  O 
hairy,  Arthre  jennyrosy?:  the  firewaterloover  returted  with  such  a 
vinesmelling  fortytudor  ages  rawdownhams  tanyouhide  as  would 
turn  the  latten  stomach  even  of  a  tumass  equinous  (we  were  pre- 
pared for  the  chap's  clap  cap,  the  accent,  but,  took  us  as,  by  surprise 
and  now  we're  geshing  it  like  gush  gash  from  a  burner !)  so  that  all 
the  twofromthirty  advocatesses  within  echo,  pulling  up  their  briefs 
at  the  krigkry:  Shun  the  Punman!:  safely  and  soundly  soccered 
that  fenemine  Parish  Poser,  (how  dare  he!)  umprumptu  right- 
oway  hames,  much  to  his  thanks,  gratiasagam,  to  all  the  wrong 
donatrices,  biss  Drinkbattle's  Dingy  Dwellings  where  (for  like 
your  true  venuson  Esau  he  was  dovetimid  as  the  dears  at 
Bottome)  he  shat  in  (zoo),  like  the  muddy  goalbind  who  he  was 
(dun),  the  chassetitties  belles  conclaiming:  You  and  your  gift  of 
your  gaft  of  your  garbage  abaht  our  Farvver!  and  gaingridando: 
Hon!  Verg!  Nau!  Putor!  Skam!  Schams!  Shames! 

And  so  it  all  ended.  Artha  kam.a  dharma  moksa.  Ask  Kavya  for 
the  kay.  And  so  everybody  heard  their  plaint  and  all  listened  to 
their  plause.  The  letter!  The  litter!  And  the  soother  the  bitther! 
Of  eyebrow  pencilled,  by  lipstipple  penned.  Borrowing  a  word 
and  begging  the  question  and  stealing  tinder  and  slipping  like 
soap.  From  dark  Rosa  Lane  a  sigh  and  a  weep,  from  Lesbia 
Looshe  the  beam  in  her  eye,  from  lone  Coogan  Barry  his  arrow 
of  song,  from  Sean  Kelly's  anagrim  a  blush  at  the  name,  from 
I  am  the  Sullivan  that  trumpeting  tramp,  from  Suffering  Duf- 
ferin  the  Sit  of  her  Style,  from  Kathleen  May  Vernon  her  Mebbe 
fair  efforts,  from  Fillthepot  Curran  his  scotchlove  machree- 
ther,  from  hymn  Op.  2  Phil  Adolphos  the  weary  O,  the  leery, 
O,  from  Samyouwill  Leaver  or  Damyouwell  Lover  that  jolly 
old  molly  bit  or  that  bored  saunter  by,  from  Timm  Finn  again's 
weak  tribes  loss  of  strenghth  to  his  sowheel,  from  the  wedding 

93 


on  the  greene,  agirlies,  the  gretnass  of  joyboys,  from  Pat  Mullen, 
Tom  Mallon,  Dan  Meldon,  Don  Maldon  a  slickstick  picnic  made 
in  Moate  by  Muldoons.  The  solid  man  saved  by  his  sillied  woman. 
Crackajolking  away  like  a  hearse  on  fire.  The  elm  that  whimpers 
at  the  top  told  the  stone  that  moans  when  stricken.  Wind  broke 
it.  Wave  bore  it.  Reed  wrote  of  it.  Syce  ran  with  it.  Hand  tore 
it  and  wild  went  war.  Hen  trieved  it  and  plight  pledged  peace. 
It  was  folded  with  cunning,  sealed  with  crime,  uptied  by  a  harlot, 
undone  by  a  child.  It  was  life  but  was  it  fair.'^  It  was  free  but  was 
it  art.^  The  old  hunks  on  the  hill  read  it  to  perlection.  It  made 
ma  make  merry  and  sissy  so  shy  and  rubbed  some  shine  off  Shem 
and  put  some  shame  into  Shaun.  Yet  Una  and  Ita  spill  famine 
with  drought  and  Agrippa,  the  propastored,  spells  tripulations 
in  his  threne.  Ah,  furchte  fruchte,  timid  Danaides !  Ena  milo  melo- 
mon,  frai  is  frau  and  swee  is  too,  swee  is  two  when  swoo  is  free, 
ana  mala  woe  is  we!  A  pair  of  sycopanties  with  amygdaleine 
eyes,  one  old  obster  lumpky  pumpkin  and  three  meddlars  on 
their  slies.  And  that  was  how  framm  Sin  fromm  Son,  acity  arose, 
finfin  funfun,  a  sitting  arrows.  Now  tell  me,  tell  me,  tell  me  then! 

What  was  it.'^ 

A  ! 

?  O! 

So  there  you  are  now  there  they  were,  when  all  was  over 
again,  the  four  with  them,  setting  around  upin  their  judges' 
chambers,  in  the  muniment  room,  of  their  marshalsea,  under  the 
suspices  of  Lally,  around  their  old  traditional  tables  of  the  law 
like  Somany  Solans  to  talk  it  over  rallthesameagain.  Well  and 
druly  dry.  Suffering  law  the  dring.  Accourting  to  king's  evelyns. 
So  help  her  goat  and  kiss  the  bouc.  Festives  and  highajinks  and 
jintyaun  and  her  beetyrossy  bettydoaty  and  not  to  forget  now 
a'duna  o'darnel.  The  four  of  them  and  thank  court  now  there 
were  no  more  of  them.  So  pass  the  push  for  port  sake.  Be  it  soon. 
Ah  ho!  And  do  you  remember,  Singabob,  the  badfather,  the 
same,  the  great  Howdoyoucallem,  and  his  old  nickname.  Dirty 
Daddy  Pantaloons,  in  his  monopoleums,  behind  the  war  of  the 
two  roses,  with  Michael  Victory,  the  sheemen's  preester,  before 

94 


he  caught  his  paper  dispillsation  from  the  poke,  old  Minace  and 
Minster  York?  Do  I  mind?  I  mind  the  gush  off  the  mon  like  Bal- 
lybock  manure  works  on  a  tradewinds  day.  And  the  O'Moyly 
grades  and  the  O' Briny  rossies  chaffing  him  bluchface  and  play- 
ing him  pranks.  How  do  you  do,  todo,  North  Mister?  Get  into 
my  way!  Ah  dearome  forsailoshe!  Gone  over  the  bays!  When 
ginabawdy  meadabawdy!  Yerra,  why  would  he  heed  that  old 
gasometer  with  his  hooping  coppin  and  his  dyinboosycough  and 
all  the  birds  of  the  southside  after  her,  Minxy  Cunningham,  their 
dear  divorcee  darling,  jimmies  and  jonnies  to  be  her  jo?  Hold 
hard.  There's  three  other  corners  to  our  isle's  cork  float.  Sure,  'tis 
well  I  can  telesmell  him  Hg  C  Eg  that  would  take  a  township's 
breath  away!  Gob  and  I  nose  him  too  well  as  I  do  meself,  heav- 
ing up  the  Kay  Wall  by  the  32  to  11  with  his  limelooking  horse- 
bags  full  of  sesameseed,  the  Whiteside  Kaffir,  and  his  say  man's 
effluvium  and  his  scentpainted  voice,  puffing  out  his  thundering 
big  brown  cabbage!  Pa!  Thawt  I'm  glad  a  gull  for  his  pawsdeen 
fiunn!  Goborro,  sez  he,  Lankyshied!  Gobugga  ye,  sez  I!  O 
breezes!  I  sniffed  that  lad  long  before  anyone.  It  was  when  I  was 
in  my  farfather  out  at  the  west  and  she  and  myself,  the  redheaded 
girl,  firstnighting  down  Sycomore  Lane.  Fine  feelplay  we  had 
of  it  mid  the  kissabetts  frisking  in  the  kool  kurkle  dusk  of  the 
lushiness.  My  perfume  of  the  pampas,  says  she  (meaning  me) 
putting  out  her  netherlights,  and  I'd  sooner  one  precious  sip  at 
your  pure  mountain  dew  than  enrich  my  acquaintance  with  that 
big  brewer's  belch. 

And  so  they  went  on,  the  fourbottle  men,  the  analists,  ungu- 
am  and  nunguam  and  lunguam  again,  their  anschluss  about  her 
whosebefore  and  his  whereafters  and  how  she  was  lost  away 
away  in  the  fern  and  how  he  was  founded  deap  on  deep  in  anear, 
and  the  rustlings  and  the  twitterings  and  the  raspings  and  the 
snappings  and  the  sighings  and  the  paintings  and  the  ukukuings 
and  the  (hist!)  the  springapartings  and  the  (hast!)  the  bybyscutt- 
lings  and  all  the  scandalmunkers  and  the  pure  craigs  that  used  to 
be  (up)  that  time  living  and  lying  and  rating  and  riding  round 
Nunsbelly  Square.  And  all  the  buds  in  the  bush.  And  the  laugh- 

95 


ing  jackass.  Harik!  Harik!  Harik!  The  rose  is  white  in  the  darik! 
And  Sunfella's  nose  has  got  rhinoceritis  from  haunting  the  roes 
in  the  parik!  So  all  rogues  lean  to  rhyme.  And  contradrinking 
themselves  about  Lillytrilly  law  pon  hilly  and  Mrs  Niall  of  the 
Nine  Corsages  and  the  old  markiss  their  besterfar,  and,  arrah, 
sure  there  was  never  a  marcus  at  all  at  all  among  the  manlies  and 
dear  Sir  Armoury,  queer  Sir  Rumoury,  and  the  old  house  by  the 
churpelizod,  and  all  the  goings  on  so  very  wrong  long  before 
when  they  were  going  on  retreat,  in  the  old  gammeldags,  the 
four  of  them,  in  Milton's  Park  under  lovely  Father  Whisperer 
and  making  her  love  with  his  stufTstuff  in  the  languish  of  flowers 
and  feeling  to  find  was  she  mushymushy,  and  wasn't  that  very 
both  of  them,  the  saucicissters,  a  drahereen  o  machreel^  and  (peep!) 
meeting  waters  most  improper  (peepette!)  ballround  the  garden, 
trickle  trickle  trickle  triss,  please,  miman,  may  I  go  flirting.'^ 
farmers  gone  with  a  groom  and  how  they  used  her,  mused  her, 
licksed  her  and  cuddled.  I  differ  with  ye !  Are  you  sure  of  your- 
self now.'^  You're  a  liar,  excuse  me!  I  will  not  and  you're  an- 
other !  And  Lully  holding  their  breach  of  the  peace  for  them.  Pool 
loll  Lolly!  To  give  and  to  take!  And  to  forego  the  pasht!  And 
all  will  be  forgotten!  Ah  ho!  It  was  too  too  bad  to  be  falling 
out  about  her  kindness  pet  and  the  shape  of  00000000 
Ourang's  time.  Well,  all  right,  Lelly.  And  shakeahand.  And 
schenkusmore.  For  Craig  sake.  Be  it  suck. 
Well.? 

Well,  even  should  not  the  framing  up  of  such  figments  in  the 
evidential  order  bring  the  true  truth  to  light  as  fortuitously  as 
a  dim  seer's  setting  of  a  starchart  might  (heaven  helping  it!)  un- 
cover the  nakedness  of  an  unknown  body  in  the  fields  of  blue 
or  as  forehearingly  as  the  sibspeeches  of  all  mankind  have  foli- 
ated (earth  seizing  them!)  from  the  root  of  some  funner's  stotter 
all  the  soundest  sense  to  be  found  immense  our  special  mentalists 
now  holds  {securus  iudicat  orbis  terrarum)  that  by  such  playing 
possum  our  hagious  curious  encestor  bestly  saved  his  brush  with 
his  posterity,  you,  charming  coparcenors,  us,  heirs  of  his  tailsie. 
Gundogs  of  all  breeds  were  beagling  with  renouncedoirbiandor- 

96  ~^ 


bkj^ugles,  hot  to  run  him,  given  law,  on  a  scent  breasthigh, 
keen  for  the  worry.  View!  From  his  holt  outratted  across  the 
Juletide's  genial  corsslands  of  Humfries  Chase  from  Mullinahob 
and  Peacockstown,  then  bearing  right  upon  Tankardstown,  the 
outlier,  a  white  noelan  which  Mr  Loewensteil  Fitz  Urse's  basset 
beaters  had  first  misbadgered  for  a  bruin  of  some  swart,  led 
bayers  the  run,  then  through  Raystown  and  Horlockstown  and, 
louping  the  loup,  to  Tankardstown  again.  Ear  canny  hare  for 
doubling  through  Cheeverstown  they  raced  him,  through 
Loughlinstown  and  Nutstown  to  wind  him  by  the  Boolies.  But 
from  the  good  turn  when  he  last  was  lost,  check,  upon  Ye  Hill 
of  Rut  in  full  winter  coat  with  ticker  pads,  pointing  for  his  room- 
ing house  his  old  nordest  in  his  rolltoproyal  hessians  a  deaf  fuch- 
ser's  volponism  hid  him  close  in  covert,  miraculously  ravenfed 
and  buoyed  up,  in  rumer,  reticule,  onasum  and  abomasum,  upon 
(may  AUbrewham  have  his  mead!)  the  creamclotted  sherriness  of 
cinnamon  syllabub,  Mikkelraved,  Nikkelsaved.  Hence  hounds 
hied  home.  Preservative  perseverance  in  the  reeducation  of  his 
intestines  was  the  rebuttal  by  whilk  he  sort  of  git  the  big  bulge 
on  the  whole  bunch  of  spasoakers,  dieting  against  glues  and  gra- 
vies, in  that  sometime  prestreet  protown.  Vainly  violence,  viru- 
lence and  vituperation  sought  wellnigh  utterly  to  attax  and  a- 
bridge,  to  derail  and  depontify,  to  enrate  and  inroad,  to  ongoad 
and  unhume  the  great  shipping  mogul  and  under  linen  overlord. 

But  the  spoil  of  hesitants,  the  spell  of  hesitency.  His  atake  is 
it  ashe,  tittery  taw  tatterytail,  hasitense  humponadimply,  heyhey- 
heyhey  a  winceywencky. 

Assembly  men  murmured.    Reynard  is  slow! 

One  feared  for  his  days.  Did  there  yawn.^  'Twas  his  stom- 
mick.  Eruct.^  The  libber.  A  gush.^  From  his  visuals.  Pung.^  De- 
livver  him,  orelode !  He  had  laid  violent  hands  on  himself,  it  was 
brought  in  Fugger's  Newsletter,  lain  down,  all  in,  fagged  out, 
with  equally  melancholy  death.  For  the  triduum  of  Saturnalia 
his  goatservant  had  paraded  hiz  willingsons  in  the  Forum  while 
the  jenny  infanted  the  lass  to  be  greeted  raucously  (the  Yardstat- 
ed)  with  houx  and  epheus  and  measured  with  missiles  too  from 

97 


a  hundred  of  manhood  and  a  wimmering  of  weibes.  Big  went 
the  bang:  then  wildewide  was  quiet:  a  report:  silence:  last  Fama 
put  it  under  ether.  The  noase  or  the  loal  had  dreven  him  blem, 
blem,  stun  blem.  Sparks  flew.  He  had  fled  again  (open  shun- 
shema!)  this  country  of  exile,  sloughed  off,  sidleshomed  via  the 
subterranean  shored  with  bedboards,  stowed  away  and  ankered 
in  a  dutch  bottom  tank  the  Arsa,  hod  S,S.  Finlandia,  and  was 
even  now  occupying,  under  an  islamitic  newhame  in  his  seventh 
generation,  a  physical  body  Cornelius  Magrath's  (badoldkarak- 
ter,  commonorrong  canbung)  in  Asia  Major,  where  as  Turk  of 
the  theater  (first  house  all  flatty:  the  king,  eleven  sharps)  he  had 
bepiastered  the  buikdanseuses  from  the  opulence  of  his  omni- 
box  while  as  arab  at  the  streetdoor  he  bepestered  the  bumbashaws 
for  the  alms  of  a  para's  pence.  Wires  hummed.  Peacefully  general 
astonishment  assisted  by  regrettitude  had  put  a  term  till  his  exis- 
tence: he  saw  the  family  saggarth,  resigned,  put  off  his  remain- 
ders, was  recalled  and  scrapheaped  by  the  Maker.  Chirpings 
crossed.  An  infamous  private  ailment  (vulgovarioveneral)  had 
claimed  endright,  closed  his  vicious  circle,  snap.  Jams  jarred. 
He  had  walked  towards  the  middle  of  an  ornamental  lilypond 
when  innebriated  up  to  the  point  where  braced  shirts  meet  knic- 
kerbockers, as  wangfish  daring  the  buoyant  waters,  when  rod- 
men's  firstaiding  hands  had  rescued  un  from  very  possibly  several 
feel  of  demifrish  water.  Mush  spread.  On  Umbrella  Street  where 
he  did  drinks  from  a  pumps  a  kind  of  workman,  Mr  Whitlock, 
gave  him  a  piece  of  wood.  What  words  of  power  were  made  fas 
between  them,  ekenames  and  auchnomes,  acnomina  ecnumina? 
That,  O  that,  did  Hansard  tell  us,  would  gar  ganz  Dub's  ear 
wag  in  every  pub  of  all  the  citta!  Batty  believes  a  baton  while 
Hogan  hears  a  hod  yet  Heer  prefers  a  punsil  shapner  and  Cope 
and  Bull  go  cup  and  ball.  And  the  Cassidy  —  Craddock  rome 
and  reme  round  e'er  a  wiege  ne'er  a  waage  is  still  immer  and 
immor  awagering  over  it,  a  cradle  with  a  care  in  it  or  a  casket 
with  a  kick  behind.  Toties  testies  quoties  questies.  The  war  is 
in  words  and  the  wood  is  the  world.  Maply  me,  willowy  we, 
hickory  he  and  yew  yourselves.  Howforliim  chirrupeth  evereach- 

98 


4 


I 


bird!  From  golddawn  glory  to  glowworm  gleam.  We  were 
lowquacks  did  we  not  tacit  turn.  Elsewere  there  here  no  con- 
cern of  the  Guinnesses.  But  only  the  ruining  of  the  rain  has 
heard.  Estout  pourporteral!  Cracklings  cricked.  A  human  pest 
cycling  (pist!)  and  recycling  (past!)  about  the  sledgy  streets,  here 
he  was  (pust!)  again!  Morse  nuisance  noised.  He  was  loose  at 
large  and  (Oh  baby!)  might  be  anywhere  when  a  disguised  ex- 
nun,  of  huge  standbuild  and  masculine  manners  in  her  fairly  fat 
forties,  Carpulenta  Gygasta,  hattracted  hattention  by  harbitrary 
conduct  with  a  homnibus.  Aerials  buzzed  to  coastal  listeners  of 
an  oertax  bror  collector's  budget,  fullybigs,  sporran,  tie,  tuft, 
tabard  and  bloody  antichill  cloak,  its  tailor's  (Baernfather's)  tab 
reading  V.P.H.,  found  nigh  Scaldbrothar's  Hole,  and  divers 
shivered  to  think  what  kaind  of  beast,  wolves,  croppis's  or  four- 
penny  friars,  had  devoured  him.  C.  W.  cast  wide.  Hvidfinns  lyk, 
drohneth  svertgleam,  Valkir  lockt.  On  his  pinksir's  postern,  the 
boys  had  it,  at  Whitweekend  had  been  nailed  an  inkedup  name 
and  title,  inscribed  in  the  national  cursives,  accelerated,  regres- 
sive, filiform,  turreted  and  envenomoloped  in  piggotry:  Move 
up.  Mumpty!  Mike  room  for  Rumpty!  By  order,  Nickekellous 
Plugg;  and  this  go,  no  pentecostal  jest  about  it,  how  gregarious 
his  race  soever  or  skilful  learned  wise  cunning  knowledgable 
clear  profound  his  saying  fortitudo  fraught  or  prudentiaproven, 
were  he  chief,  count,  general,  fieldmarshal,  prince,  king  or  Myles 
the  Slasher  in  his  person,  with  a  moliamordhar  mansion  in  the 
Breffnian  empire  and  a  place  of  inauguration  on  the  hill  of  Tully- 
mongan,  there  had  been  real  murder,  of  the  rayheallach  royghal 
raxacraxian  variety,  the  MacMahon  chaps,  it  was,  that  had  done 
him  in.  On  the  fidd  of  Verdor  the  rampart  combatants  had  left 
him  lion  with  his  dexter  handcoup  wresterected  in  a  pureede 
paumee  bloody  proper.  Indeed  not  a  few  thick  and  thin  well- 
wishers,  mostly  of  the  clontarfminded  class,  (Colonel  John  Bawle 
O'Roarke,  fervxamplus),  even  ventured  so  far  as  to  loan  or  beg 
copies  of  D.  Blayncy's  trilingual  triweekly,  Scatterbrains'  Aften- 
ing  Posht,  so  as  to  make  certain  sure  onetime  and  be  satisfied  of 
their  quasicontribusodalitarian's  having  become  genuinely  quite 

99 


beetly  dead  whether  by  land  whither  by  water.  Transocean 
atalaclamoured  him;  The  latter!  The  latter!  Shall  their  hope  then 
be  silent  or  Macfarlane  lack  of  lamentation?  He  lay  under  leagues 
of  it  in  deep  Bartholoman's  Deep. 

