royal  commissioners !  'Tis  an  ill  weed  blows  no  poppy  good.  And 
this  labour's  worthy  of  my  higher.  Oil  for  meed  and  toil  for  feed 
and  a  walk  with  the  band  for  Job  Loos.  If  I  hope  not  charity  what 
profiteers  me.^  Nothing!  My  tippers  of  flags  are  knobs  of  hard- 
shape  for  it  isagrim  tale,  keeping  the  father  of  curls  from  the 
sport  of  oak.  Do  you  know  what,  liddle  giddles.'*  One  of  those 
days  I  am  advised  by  the  smiling  voteseeker  who's  now  snoring 
elued  to  positively  strike  off"  hiking  for  good  and  all  as  I  bldy 
well  bdly  ought  until  such  temse  as  some  mood  is  made  under 
privy-sealed  orders  to  get  me  an  increase  of  automoboil  and  foot- 
wear for  these  poor  discalced  and  a  bourse  from  bon  Somewind  for 
a  cure  at  Badanuweir  (though  where  it's  going  to  come  from  this 
time  — )  as  I  sartunly  think  now,  honest  to  John,  for  an  income 
plexus  that  that's  about  the  sanguine  boundary  limit.  Amean. 

Sis  dearest,  Jaun  added,  with  voise  somewhit  murky,  what 
though  still  high  fa  luting,  as  he  turned  his  dorse  to  her  to  pay 
court  to  it,  and  ouverleaved  his  booseys  to  give  the  note  and 

448 


score,  phonoscopically  incuriosited  and  melancholic  this  time 
whiles,  as  on  the  fulmament  he  gaped  in  wulderment,  his  on- 
saturncast  eyes  in  stellar  attraction  followed  swift  to  an  imagin- 
ary swellaw,  O,  the  vanity  of  Vanissy!  All  ends  vanishing!  Pur- 
sonally,  Grog  help  me,  I  am  in  no  violent  hurry.  If  time  enough 
lost  the  ducks  walking  easy  found  them.  I'll  nose  a  blue  fonx 
with  any  tristys  blinking  upon  this  earthlight  of  all  them  that 
pass  by  the  way  of  the  deerdrive,  conconey's  run  or  wilfrid's 
walk,  but  Fd  turn  back  as  lief  as  not  if  I  could  only  spoonfind 
the  nippy  girl  of  my  heart's  appointment^  Mona  Vera  Toutou 
Ipostila,  my  lady  of  Lyons,  to  guide  me  by  gastronomy  under 
her  safe  conduct.  That's  more  in  my  line.  I'd  ask  no  kinder  of 
fates  than  to  stay  where  I  am,  with  my  tinny  of  brownie's  tea, 
under  the  invocation  of  Saint  Jamas  Hanway,  servant  of  Gamp, 
lapidated,  and  Jacobus  a  Pershawm,  intercissous,  for  my  thuri- 
fex,  with  Peter  Roche^  that  frind  of  my  boozum,  leaning  on  my 
cubits,  at  this  passing  moment  by  localoption  in  the  birds'  lodg- 
ing, me  pheasants  among,  where  I'll  dreamt  that  I'll  dwealth  mid 
warblers'  walls  when  throstles  and  choughs  to  my  sigh  hiehied, 
with  me  hares  standing  up  well  and  me  longlugs  dittoes,  where 
a  maurdering  row,  the  fox!  has  broken  at  the  coward  sight  till 
well  on  into  the  beausome  of  the  exhaling  night,  pinching  stop- 
andgo  jewels  out  of  the  hedges  and  catching  dimtop  brilliants 
on  the  tip  of  my  wagger  but  for  that  owledclock  (fast  cease  to  it !) 
has  just  gone  twoohoo  the  hour  and  that  yen  breezes  zipping 
round  by  Drumsally  do  be  devils  to  play  fleurt.  I  could  sit  on  safe 
side  till  the  bark  of  Saint  Grouseus  for  hoopoe's  hours,  till  heoU's 
hoerrisings,  laughing  lazy  at  the  sheep's  lightning  and  turn  a  wida- 
most  ear  dreamily  to  the  drummling  of  snipers,  hearing  the  wire- 
less harps  of  sweet  old  Aerial  and  the  mails  across  the  nightrives 
(peepet!  peepet!)  and  whippoor  willy  in  the  woody  (moor  park! 
moor  park!)  as  peacefed  as  a  philopotamus,  and  crekking  jugs 
at  the  grenoulls,  leaving  tealeaves  for  the  trout  and  belleeks  for  the 
wary  till  I'd  followed  through  my  upfielded  neviewscope  the 
rugaby  moon  cumuliously  godrolling  himself  westasleep  amuckst 
the  cloudscrums  for  to  watch  how  carefully  my  nocturnal  goose- 

449 


mother  would  lay  her  new  golden  sheegg  for  me  down  under  in 
the  shy  orient.  What  wouldn't  I  poach  —  the  rent  in  my  river- 
side, my  otther  shoes,  my  beavery,  honest  I  —  ay,  and  melt  my 
belt  for  a  dace  feast  of  grannom  with  the  finny  ones,  those  happy 
greppies  in  their  minnowahaw,  flashing  down  the  swansway, 
leaps  ahead  of  the  swift  MacEels,  the  big  Gillaroo  redfellows 
and  the  pursewinded  carpers,  rearin  antis  rood  perches  astench 
of  me,  or,  when  Td  like  own  company  best,  with  the  help  of  a 
norange  and  bear,  to  be  reclined  by  the  lasher  on  my  logansome, 
my  g.b.d.  in  my  f.a.c.e.,  solfanelly  in  my  shellyholders  and  lov'd 
latakia,  the  benuvolent,  for  my  nosethrills,  with  the  jealosomines 
wilting  away  to  their  heart's  deelight  and  the  king  of  saptimber 
letting  down  his  humely  odours  for  my  consternation,  dapping 
my  griffeen,  burning  water  in  the  spearlight  or  catching  trophies 
of  the  king's  royal  college  of  sturgeone  by  the  armful  for  to  bake 
pike  and  pie  while,  O  twined  me  abower  in  L'Alouette's  Tower, 
all  Adelaide's  naughtingerls  juckjucking  benighth  me,  I'd  ga- 
mut my  twittynice  Dorian  blackbudds  chthonic  solphia  off  my 
singasongapiccolo  to  pipe  musicall  airs  on  numberous  fairy- 
aciodes.  I  give,  a  king,  to  me,  she  does,  alone,  up  there,  yes  see, 
I  double  give,  till  the  spinney  all  eclosed  asong  with  them.  Isn't 
that  lovely  though.'^  I  give  to  me  alone  I  trouble  give!  I  may  have 
no  mind  to  lamagnage  the  forte  bits  like  the  pianage  but  you 
can't  cadge  me  off  the  key.  I've  a  voicical  lilt  too  true.  Nomario ! 
And  bemoUy  and  jiesis !  For  I  sport  a  whatyoumacormack  in  the 
latcher  part  of  my  throughers.  And  the  lark  that  I  let  fly  (olala!) 
is  as  cockful  of  funantics  as  it's  tune  to  my  fork.  Naturale  you 
might  lower  register  me  as  diserecordant,  but  I'm  athlone  in  the 
lillabilling  of  killarnies.  That's  flat.  Yet  ware  the  wold,  you! 
What's  good  for  the  gorse  is  a  goad  for  the  garden.  Lethals  lurk 
heimlocked  in  logans.  Loathe  laburnums.  Dash  the  gaudy  death- 
cup!  Bryony  O'Bryony,  thy  name  is  Belladama!  But  enough  of 
greenwood's  gossip.  Birdsnests  is  birdsnests.  Thine  to  wait  but 
mine  to  wage.  And  now  play  sharp  to  me.  Doublefirst  I'll  head 
foremost  through  all  my  examhoops.  And  what  sensitive  coin 
I'd  be  possessed  of  at  Latouche's,  begor,  I'd  sink  it  sumtotal,  every 

450 


I 

i 


I 


I 


dolly  farting,  in  vestments  of  subdominal  poteen  at  prime  cost 
and  I  bait  you  my  chancey  oldcoat  against  the  whole  ounce  you 
half  on  your  backboard  (if  madamaud  strips  mesdamines  may 
cold  strafe  illglandsl)  that  I'm  the  gogetter  that'd  make  it  pay  like 
cash  registers  as  sure  as  there's  a  pot  on  a  pole.  And,  what  with  one 
man's  fish  and  a  dozen  men's  poissons,  sowing  my  wild  plums  to 
reap  ripe  plentihorns  mead,  lashings  of  erbole  and  hydromel  and 
bragget,  I'd  come  out  with  my  magic  fluke  in  close  time,  fair, 
free  and  frolicky,  zooming  tophole  on  the  mart  as  a  factor.  And 
I  tell  you  the  Bective's  wouldn't  hold  me.  By  the  unsleeping 
Solman  Annadromus,  ye  god  of  little  pescies,  nothing  would 
stop  me  for  mony  makes  multimony  like  the  brogues  and  the 
kishes.  Not  the  Ulster  Rifles  and  the  Cork  Milice  and  the  Dublin 
Fusees  and  Connacht  Rangers  ensembled!  I'd  axe  the  channon 
and  leip  a  lifFey  and  drink  annyblack  water  that  rann  onme  way. 
Yip!  How's  thats  for  scats,  mine  shatz,  for  a  lovebird.^  To  funk  is 
only  peternatural  its  daring  feers  divine.  Beboldl  Like  Varian's 
balaying  all  behind  me.  And  before  you  knew  where  you 
weren't,  I  stake  my  ignitial's  divy,  cash-and-cash-can-again,  I'd 
be  staggering  humanity  and  loyally  rolling  you  over,  my  sow- 
white  sponse,  in  my  tons  of  red  clover,  nighty  nigh  to  the  metro- 
nome, fiehigh  and  fiehigher  and  fiehighest  of  all.  Holy  petter  and 
pal,  I'd  spoil  you  altogether,  my  sumptuous  Sheila!  Mumm  all 
to  do  brut  frull  up  fizz  and  unpop  a  few  shortusians  or  shake  a 
pale  of  sparkling  ice,  hear  it  swirl,  happy  girl !  Not  a  spot  of  my 
hide  but  you'd  love  to  seek  and  scanagain !  There'd  be  no  stand- 
ing me,  I  tell  you.  And,  as  gameboy  as  my  pagan  name  K.C.  is 
what  it  is,  I'd  never  say  let  fly  till  we  shot  that  blissup  and 
swumped  each  other,  manawife,  into  our  sever  nevers  where  I'd 
plant  you,  my  Gizzygay,  on  the  electric  ottoman  in  the  lap  of 
lechery,  simpringly  stitchless  with  admiracion,  among  the  most 
uxuriously  furnished  compartments,  with  sybarate  chambers,  just 
as  I'd  run  my  shoestring  into  near  a  million  or  so  of  them  as  a 
firstclass  dealer  and  everything.  Only  for  one  thing  that,  how- 
over  famiksed  I  would  become,  I'd  be  awful  anxious,  you  under- 
stand, about  shoepisser  pluvious  and  in  assideration  of  the  terrible 

451 


luftsucks  woabling  around  with  the  hedrolics  in  the  coold  amstop- 
here  till  the  borting  that  would  perish  the  Dane  and  his  chapter 
of  accidents  to  be  atramental  to  the  better  half  of  my  alltoolyrical 
health,  not  considering  my  capsflap,  and  that's  the  truth  now  out 
of  the  cackling  bag  for  truly  sure,  for  another  thing,  I  never  could 
tell  the  leest  falsehood  that  would  truthfully  give  sotisfiction.  Fm 
not  talking  apple  sauce  eithou.  Or  up  in  my  hat.  I  earnst.  Schue! 

Sissibis  dearest,  as  I  was  reading  to  myself  not  very  long  ago 
in  Tennis  Flonnels  Mac  Courther,  his  correspondance,  besated 
upon  my  tripos,  and  just  thinking  like  thauthor  how  long  I'd  like 
myself  to  be  continued  at  Hothelizod,  peeking  into  the  focus  and 
pecking  at  thumbnail  reveries,  pricking  up  ears  to  my  phono  on 
the  ground  and  picking  up  airs  from  th'other  over  th'ether,  'tis 
tramsported  with  grief  I  am  this  night  sublime,  as  you  may  see 
by  my  size  and  my  brow  that's  all  forehead,  to  go  forth,  frank 
and  hoppy,  to  the  tune  the  old  plow  tied  off,  from  our  nostorey 
house,  upon  this  benedictine  errand  but  it  is  historically  the  most 
glorious  mission,  secret  or  profund,  through  all  the  annals  of  our 
—  as  you  so  often  term  her  —  efferfreshpainted  livy,  in  beautific 
repose,  upon  the  silence  of  the  dead,  from  pharoph  the  nextfirst 
down  to  ramescheckles  the  last  bust  thing.  The  Vico  road  goes 
round  and  round  to  meet  where  terms  begin.  Still  onappealed 
to  by  the  cycles  and  unappalled  by  the  recoursers  we  feel  all 
serene,  never  you  fret,  as  regards  our  dutyful  cask.  Full  of  my 
breadth  from  pride  I  am  (breezed  be  the  healthy  same!)  for  'tis  a 
grand  thing  (superb !)  to  be  going  to  meet  a  king,  not  an  e very- 
night  king,  nenni,  by  gannies,  but  the  overking  of  Hither-on- 
Thither  Erin  himself,  pardee,  I'm  saying.  Before  there  was  patch 
at  all  on  Ireland  there  lived  a  lord  at  Lucan.  We  only  wish 
everyone  was  as  sure  of  anything  in  this  watery  world  as  we  are 
of  everything  in  the  newlywet  fellow  that's  bound  to  follow.  I'll 
lay  you  a  guinea  for  a  hayseed  now.  Tell  mother  that.  And  tell 
her  tell  her  old  one.  'Twill  amuse  her. 

Well,  to  the  figends  of  Annanmeses  with  the  wholeabuelish 
business!  For  I  declare  to  Jeshuam  I'm  beginning  to  get  sunsick! 
I'm  not  half  Norawain  for  nothing.  The  fine  ice  so  temperate 

452 


I 


I 


of  our,  alas,  those  times  are  not  so  far  off  as  you  might  wish  to 
be  congealed.  So  now,  Fll  ask  of  you,  let  ye  create  no  scenes  in 
my  poor  primmafore's  wake.  I  don't  want  yous  to  be  billow- 
fighting  your  biddy  moriarty  duels,  gobble  gabble,  over  me  till 
you  spit  stout,  you  understand,  after  soused  mackerel,  sniffling 
clambake  to  hering  and  impudent  barney,  braggart  of  blarney, 
nor  you  ugly  lemoncholic  gobs  o'er  the  hobs  in  a  sewing  circle, 
stopping  oddments  in  maids'  costumes  at  sweeping  reductions, 
wearing  out  your  ohs  by  sitting  around  your  ahs,  making  areek- 
eransy  round  where  I  last  put  it,  with  the  painters  in  too, 
curse  luck,  with  your  rags  up,  exciting  your  mucuses,  turning 
breakfarts  into  lost  soupirs  and  salon  thay  nor  you  flabbies  on 
your  groaning  chairs  over  Bollivar's  troubles  of  a  bluemoondag, 
steamin  your  damp  ossicles,  praying  Holy  Prohibition  and  Jaun 
Dyspeptist  while  Ole  Clo  goes  through  the  wood  with  Shep 
togather,  touting  in  the  chesnut  burrs  for  Goodboy  Sommers 
and  Mistral  Blownowse  hugs  his  kindlings  when  voiceyversy 
it's  my  gala  bene  fit,  robbing  leaves  out  of  my  taletold  book. 
May  my  tunc  fester  if  ever  I  see  such  a  miry  lot  of  maggalenes! 
Once  upon  a  drunk  and  a  fairly  good  drunk  it  was  and  the  rest 
of  your  blatherumskite  1  Just  a  plain  shays  by  the  fire  for  absent- 
er  Sh  the  Po  and  I'll  make  ye  all  an  eastern  hummingsphere  of 
myself  the  moment  that  you  name  the  way.  Look  in  the  slag 
scuttle  and  you'll  see  me  sailspread  over  the  singing,  and  what 
do  ye  want  trippings  for  when  you've  Paris  inspire  your  hat.^ 
Sussumcordials  all  round,  let  ye  alloyiss  and  ominies,  while  I 
stray  and  let  ye  not  be  getting  grief  out  of  it,  though  blighted 
troth  be  all  bereft,  on  my  poor  headsake,  even  should  we  forfeit 
our  life.  Lo,  improving  ages  wait  ye !  In  the  orchard  of  the  bones. 
Some  time  very  presently  now  when  yon  clouds  are  dissipated 
after  their  forty  years  shower,  the  odds  are,  we  shall  all  be  hooked 
and  happy,  communionistically,  among  the  fieldnights  eliceam, 
elite  of  the  elect,  in  the  land  of  lost  of  time.  Johannisburg's  a  re- 
velation! Deck  the  diamants  that  never  die!  So  cut  out  the  lone- 
some stuff!  Drink  it  up,  ladies,  please,  as  smart  as  you  can  lower 
it!  Out  with  lent!  Clap  hands  postilium!  Fastintide  is  by.  Your 

453 


sole  and  myopper  must  hereupon  part  company.  So  for  e'er  fare 
thee  welt!  Parting's  fun.  Take  thou,  the  wringle's  thine,  love. 
This  dime  doth  trost  thee  from  mine  alms.  Goodbye,  swisstart, 
goodbye!  Haugh!  Haugh!  Sure,  treasures,  a  letterman  does  be 
often  thought  reading  ye  between  lines  that  do  have  no  sense  at 
all.  I  sign  myself.  With  much  leg.  Inflexibly  yours.  Ann  Posht 
the  Shorn.  To  be  continued.  Huck! 

Something  of  a  sidesplitting  nature  must  have  occurred  to 
westminstrel  Jaunathaun  for  a  grand  big  blossy  hearty  stenor- 
ious  laugh  (even  Drudge  that  lay  doggo  thought  feathers  fell) 
hopped  out  of  his  woolly's  throat  like  a  ball  lifted  over  the 
head  of  a  deep  field,  at  the  bare  thought  of  how  jolly  they'd  like 
to  be  trolling  his  whoop  and  all  of  them  truetotypes  in  missam- 
men  massness  were  just  starting  to  spladher  splodher  with  the 
jolly  magorios,  hicky  hecky  hock,  huges  huges  huges,  hughy 
hughy  hughy,  O  Jaun,  so  jokable  and  so  geepy,  O,  (Thou  pure! 
Our  virgin!  Thou  holy!  Our  health!  Thou  strong!  Our  victory! 
O  salutary!  Sustain  our  firm  solitude,  thou  who  thou  well 
strokest!  Hear,  hairy  ones!  We  have  sued  thee  but  late.  Beauty 
parlous!)  when  suddenly  (how  like  a  woman!),  swifter  as  mer- 
cury he  wheels  right  round  starnly  on  the  Rizzies  suddenly,  with 
his  gimlets  blazing  rather  sternish  (how  black  like  thunder!),  to 
see  what's  loose.  So  they  stood  still  and  wondered.  Till  first  he 
sighed  (and  how  ill  soufered!)  and  they  nearly  cried  (the  salt  of 
the  earth!)  after  which  he  pondered  and  finally  he  replied: 

—  There  is  some  thing  more.  A  word  apparting  and  shall  the 
heart's  tone  be  silent.  Engagements,  I'll  beseal  you!  Fare  thee 
well,  fairy  well!  All  I  can  tell  you  is  this,  my  sorellies.  It's  prayers 
in  layers  all  the  thumping  time,  begor,  the  young  gloria's  gang 
voices  the  old  doxologers,  in  the  suburrs  of  the  heavenly  gardens, 
once  we  shall  have  passed,  after  surceases,  all  serene  through 
neck  and  necklike  Derby  and  June  to  our  snug  eternal  retribu- 
tion's reward  (the  scorchhouse).  Shunt  us!  shunt  us!  shunt  us! 
If  you  want  to  be  felixed  come  and  be  parked.  Sacred  ease  there! 
The  seanad  and  pobbel  queue's  remainder.  To  it,  to  it!  Seekit 
headup!  No  petty  family  squabbles  Up  There  nor  homemade 

454 


1  iyiO/rVlK- 


hurricanes  in  our  Cohortyard,  no  cupahurling  nor  apuckalips 
nor  no  puncheon  jodelling  nor  no  nothing.  With  the  Byrns 
which  is  far  better  and  eve  for  ever  your  idle  be.  You  will  hardly 
reconnoitre  the  old  wife  in  the  new  bustle  and  the  farmer  shinner 
in  his  latterday  paint.  It's  the  fulldress  Toussaint's  wakeswalks 
experdition  after  a  bail  motion  from  the  chamber  of  horrus. 
Saffron  buns  or  sovran  bonhams  whichever  you'r  avider  to  like 
it  and  lump  it,  but  give  it  a  name.  lereny  allover  irelands.  And 
there's  food  for  refection  when  the  whole  flock's  at  home.  Hog- 
manny  di'yegut.'^  Hogmanny  di'yesmellygut.''  And  hogmanny 
di'yesmellyspatterygut?  You  take  Joe  Hanny's  tip  for  it!  Post- 
martem is  the  goods.  With  Jollification  a  tight  second.  Toborrow  \^  (  C 

and  toburrow  and  tobarrow!  That's  our  crass,  hairy  and  ever- 
f^f/u.^f*grim  life,  till  one  finel  howdiedow  Bouncer  Naster  raps  on  the 
bell  with  a  bone  and  his  stinkers  stank  behind  him  with  the 
sceptre  and  the  hourglass.  We  may  come,  touch  and  go,  from 
atoms  and  ifs  but  we're  presurely  destined  to  be  odd's  without 
ends.  Here  we  moult  in  Moy  Kain  and  flop  on  the  seemy  side, 
living  sure  of  hardly  a  doorstep  for  a  stopgap,  with  Whogoes- 
there  and  a  live  sandbag  round  the  corner.  But  upmeyant,  Pro- 
spector, you  sprout  all  your  abel  and  woof  your  wings  dead 
certain  however  of  neuthing  whatever  to  aye  forever  while 
Hyam  Hyam's  in  the  chair.  Ah,  sure,  pleasantries  aside,  in  the  tail 
of  the  cow  what  a  humpty  daum  earth  looks  our  miseryme  here- 
today  as  compared  beside  the  Hereweareagain  Gaieties  of  the 
Afterpiece  when  the  Royal  Revolver  of  these  real  globoes  lets 
regally  fire  of  his  mio  colpo  for  the  chrisman's  pandemon  to  give 
over  and  the  Harlequinade  to  begin  properly  SPQueaRking 
Mark  Time's  Finist  Joke.  Putting  Allspace  in  a  Notshall. 

Well,  the  slice  and  veg  joint's  well  in  its  way,  and  so  is  a 
ribroast  and  jackknife  as  sporten  dish,  but  home  cooking  every- 
time.  Mountains  good  mustard  and,  with  the  helpings  of  ladies' 
lickfings  and  gentlemen's  relish,  I've  eaten  a  griddle.  But  I  fill 
twice  as  stewhard  what  I  felt  before  when  I'm  after  eating  a  few 
natives.  The  crisp  of  the  crackling  is  in  the  chawing.  Give  us  an- 
other cup  of  your  scald.  Santos  Mozos!  That  was  a  damn  good 

455 


cup  of  scald !  You  could  trot  a  mouse  on  it.  I  ingoyed  your  pick 
of  hissing  hot  luncheon  fine,  I  did,  thanks  awfully,  (sublime!). 
Tenderest  bully  ever  I  ate  with  the  boiled  protestants  (allinoilia 
allinoilia!)  only  for  your  peas  again  was  a  taste  tooth  psalty  to 
carry  flavour  with  my  godown  and  hereby  return  with  my  best 
savioury  condiments  and  a  penny  in  the  plate  for  the  jemes. 
O.K.  Oh  Kosmos!  Ah  Ireland!  A.I.  And  for  kailkannonkabbis 
gimme  Cincinnatis  with  Italian  (but  ci  vuol poco !)  ciccalick  cheese. 
Haggis  good,  haggis  strong,  haggis  never  say  die!  For  quid  we 
have  recipimus,  recipe,  O  lout !  And  save  that,  Oliviero,  for  thy 
sunny  day!  Soupmeagre!  Couldn't  look  at  it!  But  if  you'll  buy  me 
yon  coat  of  the  vairy  furry  best,  I'll  try  and  pullll  it  awn  mee.  It's  in 
fairly  good  order  and  no  doubt  'twill  sarve  to  turn.  Remove  this 
boardcloth!  Next  stage,  tell  the  tabler,  for  a  variety  of  Hugue- 
not ligooms  I'll  try  my  set  on  edges  grapeling  an  aigrydoucks, 
grilled  over  birchenrods,  with  a  few  bloomancowls  in  albies. 
I  want  to  get  outside  monasticism.  Mass  and  meat  mar  no  man's 
journey.  Eat  a  missal  lest.  Nuts  for  the  nerves,  a  flitch  for  the  flue 
and  for  to  rejoice  the  chambers  of  the  heart  the  spirits  of  the 
spice  isles,  curry  and  cinnamon,  chutney  and  cloves.  All  the  vital- 
mines  is  beginning  to  sozzle  in  chewn  and  the  hormonies  to 
clingleclangle,  fudgem,  kates  and  caps  and  naboc  and  erics  and 
oinnos  on  kingclud  and  xoxxoxo  and  xooxox  xxoxoxxoxxx  till 
I'm  fustfed  like  fungstif  and  very  presently  from  now  posthaste 
it's  off"  yourll  see  me  ryuoll  on  my  usual  rounds  again  to  draw 
Terminus  Lower  and  Killadown  and  Letternoosh,  Letterspeak, 
Lettermuck  to  Littorananima  and  the  roomiest  house  even  in 
Ireland,  if  you  can  understamp  that,  and  my  next  item's  platform 
it's  how  I'll  try  and  collect  my  extraprofessional  postages  owing 
to  me  by  Thaddeus  Kellyesque  Squire,  dr,  for  nondesirable 
printed  matter.  The  Jooks  and  the  Kelly-Cooks  have  been 
milking  turnkeys  and  sucking  the  blood  out  of  the  marshalsea 
since  the  act  of  First  Offenders.  But  I  know  what  I'll  do.  Great 
pains  off"  him  I'll  take  and  that'll  be  your  redletterday  calendar, 
window  machree!  I'll  knock  it  out  of  him!  I'll  stump  it  out  of 
him!  I'll  rattattatter  it  out  of  him  before  I'll  quit  the  doorstep  of 

456 


I 


i 


II 


old  Con  Connolly's  residence!  By  the  horn  of  twenty  of  both  of 
the  two  Saint  Collopys,  blackmail  him  I  will  in  arrears  or  my 
name's  not  penitent  Ferdinand!  And  it's  daily  and  hourly  Fll 
nurse  him  till  he  pays  me  fine  fee.  Ameal. 

Well,  here's  looking  at  ye!  If  I  never  leave  you  biddies  till 
my  stave  is  a  bar  I'd  be  tempted  rigidly  to  become  a  passionate 
father.  Me  hunger's  weighed.  Hungkung!  Me  anger's  suaged! 
Hangkang!  Ye  can  stop  as  ye  are,  little  lay  mothers,  and  wait  in 
wish  and  wish  in  vain  till  the  grame  reaper  draws  nigh,  with 
the  sickle  of  the  sickles,  as  a  blessing  in  disguise.  Devil  a  curly 
hair  I  care!  If  any  lightfoot  Clod  Dewvale  was  to  hold  me  up, 
dicksturping  me  and  marauding  me  of  my  rights  to  my  onus,  yan, 
tyan,  tethera,  methera,  pimp,  I'd  let  him  have  my  best  pair  of 
galloper's  heels  in  the  creamsourer.  He  will  have  better  manners, 
I'm  dished  if  he  won't!  Console  yourself,  drawhure  deelish! 
There's  a  refond  of  eggsized  coming  to  you  out  of  me  so  mind 
you  do  me  duty  on  me!  Bruise  your  bulge  below  the  belt  till  I 
blewblack  beside  you.  And  you'll  miss  me  more  as  the  narrowing 
weeks  wing  by.  Someday  duly,  oneday  truly,  twosday  newly, 
till  whensday.  Look  for  me  always  at  my  west  and  I  will  think 
to  dine.  A  tear  or  two  in  time  is  all  there's  toot.  And  then  in  a 
click  of  the  clock,  toot  toot,  and  doff  doff  we  pop  with  sinnerettes 
in  silkettes  lining  longroutes  for  His  Diligence  Majesty,  our 
longdistance  laird  that  likes  creation.  To  whoosh! 

—  Meesh,  meesh,  yes,  pet.  We  were  too  happy.  I  knew  some- 
thing would  happen.  I  understand  but  listen,  drawher  nearest. 
Tizzy  intercepted,  flushing  but  flashing  from  her  dove  and  dart 
eyes  as  she  tactilifully  graphed  her  male  corrispondee  to  flusther 
sweet  nunsongs  in  his  quickturned  ear,  I  know,  benjamin  brother, 
but  listen,  I  want,  girls  palmassing,  to  whisper  my  whish.  (She 
like  them  like  us,  me  and  you,  had  thoud  he  n'er  it  would  haltin  so 
lithe  when  leased  is  tacitempust  tongue).  Of  course,  engine  dear, 
I'm  ashamed  for  my  life  (I  must  clear  my  throttle)  over  this  lost 
moment's  gift  of  memento  nosepaper  which  I'm  sorry,  my 
precious,  is  allathome  I  with  grief  can  call  my  own  but  all  the 
same,  listen,  Jaunick,  accept  this  witwee's  mite,  though  a  jenny- 

457 


teeny  witween  piece  torn  in  one  place  from  my  hands  in  second 
place  of  a  linenhall  Valentino  with  my  fondest  and  much  left  to 
tutor.  X.X.X.X.  It  was  heavily  bulledicted  for  young  Fr  Ml, 
my  pettest  parriage  priest,  and  you  know  who  between  us  by 
your  friend  the  pope,  forty  ways  in  forty  nights,  that's  the 
beauty  of  it,  look,  scene  it,  ratty.  Too  perfectly  priceless  for 
words.  And,  listen,  now  do  enhance  me,  oblige  my  fiancy  and 
bear  it  with  you  morn  till  life's  e'en  and,  of  course,  when  never 
you  make  usage  of  it,  listen,  please  kindly  think  galways  again 
or  again,  never  forget,  of  one  absendee  not  sester  Maggy.  Ahim. 
That's  the  stupidest  little  cough.  Only  be  sure  you  don't  catch  your 
cold  and  pass  it  on  to  us.  And,  since  levret  bounds  and  larks  is 
soaring,  don't  be  all  the  night.  And  this.  Joke,  a  sprig  of  blue 
speedwell  just  a  spell  of  floralora  so  you'll  mind  your  veronique. 
Of  course,  Jer,  I  know  you  know  who  sends  it,  presents  that 
please,  mercy,  on  the  face  of  the  waters  like  that  film  obote, 
awfly  charmig  of  course,  but  it  doesn't  do  her  justice,  apart  from 
her  cattiness,  in  the  magginbottle.  Of  course,  please  too  write, 
won't  you,  and  leave  your  little  bag  of  doubts,  inquisitive,  be- 
hind you  unto  your  utterly  thine,  and,  thank  you,  forward  it 
back  by  return  pigeon's  pneu  to  the  loving  in  case  I  couldn't 
think  who  it  was  or  any  funforall  happens  I'll  be  so  curiose  to 
see  in  the  Homesworth  breakfast  tablotts  as  I'll  know  etherways 
by  pity  bleu  if  it's  good  for  my  system,  what  exquisite  buttons, 
gorgiose,  in  case  I  don't  hope  to  soon  hear  from  you.  And  thanks 
ever  so  many  for  the  ten  and  the  one  with  nothing  at  all  on.  I  will 
tie  a  knot  in  my  stringamejip  to  letter  you  with  ray  silky  paper, 
as  I  am  given  now  to  understand  it  will  be  worth  my  price  in 
money  one  day  so  don't  trouble  to  ans  unless  sentby  special  as 
I  am  getting  his  pay  and  wants  for  nothing  so  I  can  live  simply 
and  solely  for  my  wonderful  kinkless  and  its  loops  of  loveliness. 
When  I  throw  away  my  rollets  there's  rings  for  all.  Flee  a  girl, 
says  it  is  her  colour.  So  does  B  and  L  and  as  for  V!  And  listen 
to  it!  Cheveluir!  So  distant  you're  always.  Bow  your  boche! 
Absolutely  perfect!  I  will  pack  my  comb  and  mirror  to  praxis 
oval  owes  and  artless  awes  and  it  will  follow  you  pulpicly 

458 


I 


as  far  as  come  back  under  all  my  eyes  like  my  sapphire  chap- 
lets  of  ringarosary  I  will  say  for  you  to  the  Allmichael  and 
solve  qui  pu  while  the  dovedoves  pick  my  mouthbuds  (msch! 
msch!)  with  nurse  Madge,  my  linkingclass  girl,  she's  a  fright, 
poor  old  dutch,  in  her  sleeptalking  when  I  paint  the  measles 
on  her  and  mudstuskers  to  make  her  a  man.  We.  We.  Issy 
done  that,  I  confesh!  But  you'll  love  her  for  her  hessians 
and  sickly  black  stockies,  cleryng's  jumbles,  salvadged  from 
the  wash,  isn't  it  the  cat's  tonsils!  Simply  killing,  how  she 
tidies  her  hair!  I  call  her  Sosy  because  she's  sosiety  for  me 
and  she  says  sossy  while  I  say  sassy  and  she  says  will 
you  have  some  more  scorns  while  I  say  won't  you  take  a  few 
more  schools  and  she  talks  about  ithel  dear  while  I  simply 
never  talk  about  athel  darling;  she's  but  nice  for  enticing  my 
friends  and  she  loves  your  style  considering  she  breaksin  me 
shoes  for  me  when  I've  arch  trouble  and  she  would  kiss  my 
white  arms  for  me  so  gratefully  but  apart  from  that  she's 
terribly  nice  really,  my  sister,  round  the  elbow  of  Erne  street 
Lower  and  I'll  be  strictly  forbidden  always  and  true  in  my  own 
way  and  private  where  I  will  long  long  to  betrue  you  along  with 
one  who  will  so  betrue  you  that  not  once  while  I  betreu  him  not 
once  well  he  be  betray  himself.  Can't  you  understand.'^  O  bother, 
I  must  tell  the  trouth!  My  latest  lad's  loveliletter  I  am  sore  I  done 
something  with.  I  like  him  lots  coss  he  never  cusses.  Pity  bon- 
hom.  Pip  pet.  I  shouldn't  say  he's  pretty  but  I'm  cocksure  he's 
shy.  Why  I  love  taking  him  out  when  I  unletched  his  cordon 
gate.  Ope,  Jack,  and  atem!  Obealbe  myodorers  and  he  dote  so. 
He  fell  for  my  lips,  for  my  lisp,  for  my  lewd  speaker.  I  felt  for 
his  strength,  his  manhood,  his  do  you  mind.'^  There  can  be  no 
candle  to  hold  to  it,  can  there .'^  And,  of  course,  dear  professor,  I 
understand.  You  can  trust  me  that  thdtigh  I  change  thy  name 
though  not  the  letter  never  while  I  become  engaged  with  my 
first  horsepower,  masterthief  of  hearts,  I  will  give  your  lovely 
face  of  mine  away,  my  boyish  bob,  not  for  tons  of  donkeys,  to 
my  second  mate,  with  the  twirlers  the  engineer  of  the  passio- 
flower  (O  the  wicked  untruth!  whot  a  tell!  that  he  has  bought 

459 


me  in  his  Wellingtons  what  you  haven't  got!),  in  one  of  those 
pure  clean  lupstucks  of  yours  thankfully,  Arrah  of  the  passkeys, 
no  matter  what.  You  may  be  certain  of  that,  fluff,  now  I  know 
how  to  tackle.  Lock  my  mearest  next  myself.  So  don't  keep  me 
now  for  a  good  boy  for  the  love  of  my  fragrant  saint,  you  villain, 
peppering  with  fear,  my  goodless  graceless,  or  Til  first  murder 
you  but,  hvisper,  meet  me  after  by  next  appointment  near  you 
know  Ships  just  there  beside  the  Ship  at  the  future  poor  fool's 
circuts  of  lovemountjoy  square  to  show  my  disrespects  now,  let 
me  just  your  Caroline  for  you,  I  must  really  so  late.  Sweet  pig, 
he'll  be  furious!  How  he  stalks  to  simself  louther  and  lover, 
immutating  aperybally.  My  prince  of  the  courts  who'll  beat  me 
to  love!  And  I'll  be  there  When  who  knows  where  with  the 
objects  of  which  I'll  knowor  forget.  We  say.  Trust  us.  Our 
game.  (For  fun!)  The  Dargle  shall  run  dry  the  sooner  I  you 
deny.  Whoevery  heard  of  such  a  think.'^  Till  the  ulmost  of  all 
elmoes  shall  stele  our  harts  asthone!  And  Mrs  A'Mara  makes 
it  up  and  befriends  with  Mrs  O'Morum!  I  will  write  down  all 
your  names  in  my  gold  pen  and  ink.  Everyday,  precious,  while 
m'm'ry's  leaves  are  falling  deeply  on  my  Jungfraud's  Messonge- 
book  I  will  dream  telepath  posts  dulcets  on  this  isinglass  stream 
(but  don't  tell  him  or  I'll  be  the  mort  of  him !)  under  the  libans 
and  the  sickamours,  the  cyprissis  and  babilonias,  where  the 
frondoak  rushes  to  the  ask  and  the  yewleaves  too  kisskiss  them- 
selves and  'twill  carry  on  my  hearz'waves  my  still  waters  reflec- 
tions in  words  over  Margrate  von  Hungaria,  her  Quaidy  ways 
and  her  Flavin  hair,  to  thee.  Jack,  ahoy,  beyond  the  boysforus. 
Splesh  of  hiss  splash  springs  your  salmon.  Twick  twick,  twinkle 
twings  my  twilight  as  Sarterday  afternoon  lex  leap  will  smile  on 
my  fourinhanced  twelvemonthsmind.  And  what's  this  I  was 
going  to  say,  dean.^  O,  I  understand.  Listen,  here  I'll  wait  on  thee 
till  Thingavalla  with  beautiful  do  be  careful  teacakes,  more  stues- 
ser  flavoured  than  Vanilla  and  blackcurrant  there's  a  cure  in,  like 
a  born  gentleman  till  you'll  resemble  me,  all  the  time  you're 
awhile  way,  I  swear  to  you,  I  will,  by  Candlemas!  And  listen, 
joey,  don't  be  ennoyed  with  me,  my  old  evernew,  when,  by  the 

460 


end  of  your  chapter,  you  citch  water  on  the  wagon  for  me  being 
turned  a  star  I'll  dubeurry  my  two  fesces  under  Pouts  Vanisha 
Creme,  their  way  for  spilling  cream,  and,  accent,  umto  extend 
my  personnalitey  to  the  latents,  I'll  boy  me  for  myself  only  of 
expensive  rainproof  of  pinked  elephant's  breath  grey  of  the 
loveliest  sheerest  dearest  widowshood  over  airforce  blue  I  am 
so  wild  for,  my  precious  once,  Hope  Bros.,  Faith  Street,  Charity 
Corner,  as  the  bee  loves  her  skyhighdeed,  for  I  always  had  a 
crush  on  heliotrope  since  the  dusess  of  yore  cycled  round  the 
Finest  Park,  and  listen.  And  never  mind  me  laughing  at  what's 
atever!  I  was  in  the  nerves  but  it's  my  last  day.  Always  about 
this  hour,  I'm  sorry,  when  our  gamings  for  Bruin  and  Noselong 
is  all  oh  you  tease  and  afterdoon  my  lickle  pussiness  I  stheal 
heimlick  in  my  russians  from  the  attraction  part  with  my  terri- 
blitall  boots  calvescatcher  Pinchapoppapoff,  who  is  going  to  be 
a  jennyroll,  at  my  nape,  drenched,  love,  with  dripping  to  affec- 
tionate slapmamma  but  last  at  night,  look,  after  my  golden  vio- 
lents  wetting  in  my  upperstairs  splendidly  welluminated  with 
such  lidlylac  curtains  wallpapered  to  match  the  cat  and  a  fire- 
please  keep  looking  of  priceless  pearlogs  I  just  want  to  see  will 
he  or  are  all  Michales  like  that,  Fll  strip  straight  after  devotions 
before  his  fondstare — and  I  mean  it  too,  (thy  gape  to  my  gazing 
I'll  bind  and  makeleash)  and  poke  stiff  under  my  isonbound  with 
my  soiedisante  chineknees  cheeckchubby  chambermate  for  the 
night's  foreign  males  and  your  name  of  Shane  will  come  forth 
between  my  shamefaced  whesen  with  other  lipth  I  nakest  open 
my  thight  when  just  woken  by  his  toccatootletoo  my  first  morn- 
ing. So  now,  to  thalk  thildish,  thome,  theated  with  Mag  at  the 
oilthan  we  are  doing  to  thay  one  little  player  before  doing  to 
deed.  An  a  tiss  to  the  tassie  for  lu  and  for  tu!  Coach  me  how  to 
tumble,  Jaime,  and  listen,  with  supreme  regards,  Juan,  in  haste, 
warn  me  which  to  ah  ah  ah  ah.  .  .  . 

—  MEN!  Juan  responded  fullchantedly  to  her  sororal  sono- 
rity, imitating  himself  capitally  with  his  bubbleblown  in  his 
patapet  and  his  chalished  drink  now  well  in  hand.  (A  spilt,  see, 
for  a  split,  see  see!)  Ever  gloriously  kind!  And  I  truly  am 

461 


eucherised  to  yous.  Also  sacre  pere  and  maitre  d'autel.  Well, 
ladies  upon  gentlermen  and  toastmaster  general,  let  us,  brindising 
brandisong,  woo  and  win  womenlong  with  health  to  rich  vine- 
yards, Erin  go  Dry !  Amingst  the  living  waters  of,  the  living  in 
giving  waters  of.  Tight!  Loose!  A  stiff  one  for  Staffetta  mullified 
with  creams  of  hourmony,  the  coupe  that's  chill  for  jacklessjill  and 
a  filiform  dhouche  on  Doris!  Esterelles,  be  not  on  your  weeping 
what  though  Shaunathaun  is  in  his  fail!  To  stir  up  love's  young 
fizz  I  tilt  with  this  bridle's  cup  champagne,  dimming  douce  from 
her  peepair  of  hideseeks,  tightsqueezed  on  my  snowybrusted  and 
while  my  pearlies  in  their  sparkling  wisdom  are  nippling  her 
bubblets  I  swear  (and  let  you  swear!)  by  the  bumper  round  of 
my  poor  old  snaggletooth's  solidbowel  I  ne'er  will  prove  Fm 
untrue  to  your  liking  (theare !)  so  long  as  my  hole  looks.  Down. 

So  gullaby,  me  poor  Isley!  But  I'm  not  for  forgetting  me 
innerman  monophone  for  I'm  leaving  my  darling  proxy  behind 
