and  the  wildering  of  the  nicht  till  cockeedoodle  aubens  Aurore. 
Panther  monster.  Send  leabarrow  loads  amorrow.  While  loevdom 
shleeps.  Elenfant  has  siang  his  triump.  Great  is  Eliphas  Magis- 
trodontos  and  after  kneeprayer  pious  for  behemuth  and  mahamoth 

244 


will  rest  him  from  tusker  toils.  Salamsalaim!  Rhinohorn  isnoutso 
pigfellow  but  him  ist  gonz  wurst.  Kikikuki.  Hopopodorme.  So- 
beast!  No  chare  of  beagles,  frantling  of  peacocks,  no  muzzing  of 
the  camel,  smuttering  of  apes.  Lights,  pageboy,  lights!  Brights 
we'll  be  brights.  With  help  of  Hanoukan's  lamp.  When  otter 
leaps  in  outer  parts  then  Yul  remembers  Mei.  Her  hung  maid 
mohns  are  bluming,  look,  to  greet  those  loes  on  coast  of  amethyst; 
arcglow's  seafire  Siemens  lure  and  wextward  warnerforth's  hooker- 
crookers.  And  now  with  robby  brerfox's  fishy  fable  lissaned  out, 
the  threads  simwhat  toran  and  knots  in  its  antargumends,  the 
pesciolines  in  LifFeyetta's  bowl  have  stopped  squiggling  about 
Junoh  and  the  whalk  and  feriaquintaism  and  pebble  infinibility 
and  the  poissission  of  the  hoghly  course.  And  if  Lubbernabohore 
laid  his  horker  to  the  ribber,  save  the  giregargoh  and  dabardin 
going  on  in  his  mount  of  knowledge  (munt),  he  would  not  hear 
a  flip  flap  in  all  Finnyland.  Witchman,  watch  of  your  night.^  Es 
voes,  ez  noes,  nott  voes,  ges,  noun.  It  goes.  It  does  not  go.  Dark- 
park's  acoo  with  sucking  loves.  Rosimund's  by  her  wishing  well. 
Soon  tempt-in-twos  will  stroll  at  venture  and  hunt-by-threes  strut 
musketeering.  Brace  of  girdles,  brasse  of  beauys.  With  the  width 
of  the  way  for  jogjoy.  Hulker's  cieclest  elbownunsense.  Hold 
hard!  And  his  dithering  dathering  waltzers  of.  Stright!  But  meet- 
ings mate  not  as  forsehn.  Hesperons!  And  if  you  wand  to  Liv- 
mouth,  wenderer,  while  Jempson's  weed  decks  Jacqueson's  Island, 
here  lurks,  bar  hellpelhullpulthebell,  none  iron  welcome.  Bing. 
Bong.  Bangbong.  Thunderation !  You  took  with  the  mulligrubs 
and  we  lack  mulsum.'^  No  sirrebob!  Great  goodness,  no!  Were 
you  Marely  quean  of  Scuts  or  but  Chrestien  the  Last,  (our  duty 
to  you,  chris!  royalty,  squat!)  how  matt  your  mark,  though 
luked  your  johl,  here's  dapplebellied  mugs  and  troublebedded 
rooms  and  sawdust  strown  in  expectoration  and  for  ratification  by 
specification  of  your  information,  Mr  Knight,  tuntapster,  buttles; 
his  alefru's  up  to  his  hip.  And  Watsy  Lyke  sees  after  all  rinsings 
and  don't  omiss  Kate,  homeswab  homely,  put  in  with  the  bricks. 
A's  the  sign  and  one's  the  number.  Where  Chavvyout  Chacer 
calls  the  cup  and  Pouropourim  stands  astirrup.  De  oud  huis  bij 

245 


de  kerkegaard.  So  who  over  comes  ever  for  Whoopee  Weeks 
must  put  up  with  the  Jug  and  Chambers. 

But  heed!  Our  thirty  minutes  war's  alull.  All's  quiet  on  the 
felled  of  Gorey.  Between  the  starfort  and  the  thornwood  brass 
castle  flambs  with  mutton  candles.  Hushkah,  a  horn!  Gadolmag- 
tog!  God  es  El.^  Housefather  calls  enthreateningly.  From  Bran- 
denborgenthor.  At  Asa's  arthre.  In  thundercloud  periwig.  With 
lightning  bug  aflash  from  afinger.  My  souls  and  by  jings,  should 
he  work  his  jaw  to  give  down  the  banks  and  hark  from  the  tomb ! 
Ansighosa  pokes  in  her  potstill  to  souse  at  the  sop  be  sodden 
enow  and  to  hear  to  all  the  bubbles  besaying:  the  coming  man,  the 
future  woman,  the  food  that  is  to  build,  what  he  with  fifteen  years 
will  do,  the  ring  in  her  mouth  of  joyous  guard,  stars  astir  and 
stirabout.  A  palashe  for  hirs,  a  saucy  for  hers  and  ladlelike  spoons 
for  the  wonner.  But  ein  and  twee  were  never  worth  three.  So  they 
must  have  their  final  since  he's  on  parole.  Et  la  pau'  Leonie  has  the 
choice  of  her  lives  between  Josephinus  and  Mario-Louis  for  who 
is  to  wear  the  lily  of  Bohemey,  Florestan,  Thaddeus,  Hardress  or 
Myles.  And  lead  raptivity  captive.  Ready!  Like  a  Finn  at  a  fair. 
Now  for  la  belle !  Icy-la-Belle ! 

The  campus  calls  them.  Ninan  ninan,  the  gattling  gan!  Childs 
will  be  wilds.  'Twastold.  And  vamp,  vamp,  vamp,  the  girls  are 
merchand.  The  horseshow  magnete  draws  his  field  and  don't  the 
fillyings  fly.'^  Educande  of  Sorrento,  they  newknow  knowwell 
their  Vico's  road.  Arranked  in  their  array  and  flocking  for  the 
fray  on  that  old  orangeray,  Dolly  Brae.  For  these  are  not  on 
terms,  they  twain,  bartrossers,  since  their  baffle  of  Whatalose 
when  Adam  Leftus  and  the  devil  took  our  hindmost,  gegifting 
her  with  his  painapple,  nor  will  not  be  atoned  at  all  in  fight  to 
no  finish,  that  dark  deed  doer,  this  wellwilled  wooer,  Jerkoff  and 
Eatsoup,  Yem  or  Yan,  while  felixed  is  who  culpas  does  and  harm's 
worth  healing  and  Brune  is  bad  French  for  Jour  d'Anno.  Tiggers 
and  Tuggers  they're  all  for  tenzones.  Bettlimbraves.  For  she  must 
walk  out.  And  it  must  be  with  who.  Teaseforhim.  Toesforhim. 
Tossforhim.  Two.  Else  there  is  danger  of.  Solitude. 

Postreintroducing  Jeremy,  the  chastenot  coulter,  the  flowing 

246 


taal  that  brooks  no  brooking  runs  on  to  say  how,  as  it  was 
mutualiter  foretold  of  him  by  a  timekiller  to  his  spacemaker,  velos 
ambos  and  arubyat  knychts,  with  their  tales  within  wheels  and 
stucks  between  spokes,  on  the  hike  from  Elmstree  to  Stene  and 
back,  how,  running  awage  with  the  use  of  reason  (sics)  and 
ramming  amok  at  the  brake  of  his  voice  (sees),  his  lasterhalft 
was  set  for  getting  the  besterwhole  of  his  yougendtougend,  for 
control  number  thrice  was  operating  the  subliminal  of  his  invaded 
personality.  He  nobit  smorfi  and  go  poltri  and  let  all  the  tondo 
gang  bola  del  ruffo.  Barto  no  know  him  mor.  Eat  larto  altruis 
with  most  perfect  stranger. 

Boo,  you're  through! 

Hoo,  Fm  true! 

Men,  teacan  a  tea  simmering,  hamo  mavrone  kerry  O.'^ 
Teapotty.  Teapotty. 

Kod  knows.  Anything  ruind.  Meetingless. 

He  wept  indeiterum.  With  such  a  tooth  he  seemed  to  love  his 
wee  tart  when  abuy.  Highly  momourning  he  see  the  before  him. 
Melained  from  nape  to  kneecap  though  vied  from  her  girders  up. 
Holy  Santalto,  cursing  saint,  sight  most  deletious  to  ross  up  the 
spyballs  like  exude  of  margary!  And  how  him  it  heaviered  that 
eyerim  rust!  An  they  bare  falls  witless  against  thee  how  slight 
becomes  a  hidden  wound?  Soldwoter  he  wash  him  all  time  big- 
feller  bruisy  place  blong  him.  He  no  want  missies  blong  all  boy 
other  look  bruisy  place  blong  him.  Hence.  It  will  paineth  the 
chastenot  in  that  where  of  his  whence  he  had  loseth  his  once  for 
every,  even  though  mode  grow  moramor  maenneritsch  and  the 
Tarara  boom  decay.  Immaculacy,  give  but  to  drink  to  his  shirt 
and  all  skirtaskortas  must  change  her  tunics.  So  warred  he  from 
first  to  last,  forebanned  and  betweenly,  a  smuggler  for  lifer.  Lift 
the  blank  ve  veered  as  heil!  Split  the  hvide  and  aye  seize  heaven! 
He  knows  for  he's  seen  it  in  black  and  white  through  his  eye- 
trompit  trained  upon  jenny's  and  all  that  sort  of  thing  which  is 
dandymount  to  a  clearobscure.  Prettimaid  tints  may  try  their 
taunts:  apple,  bacchante,  custard,  dove,  eskimo,  feldgrau,  hema- 
tite, isingglass,  jet,  kipper,  lucile,  mimosa,  nut,  oysterette,  prune, 

247 


quasimodo,  royal,  sago,  tango,  umber,  vanilla,  wisteria,  xray, 
yesplease,  zaza,  philomel,  theerose.  What  are  they  all  by?  Shee. 

If  you  nude  her  in  her  prime,  make  sure  you  find  her  comple- 
mentary or,  on  your  very  first  occasion,  by  Angus  Dagdasson 
and  all  his  piccions,  she'll  prick  you  where  you're  proudest  with 
her  unsatt  speagle  eye.  Look  sharp,  she's  signalling  from  among 
the  asters.  Turn  again,  wistfultone,  lode  mere  of  Doubtlynn! 
Arise,  Land-under- Wave !  Clap  your  lingua  to  your  pallet,  drop 
your  jowl  with  a  jolt,  tambourine  until  your  breath  slides,  pet  a 
pout  and  it's  out.  Have  you  got  me,  Allysloper? 

My  top  it  was  brought  Achill's  low,  my  middle  I  ope  before 
you,  my  bottom's  a  vulser  if  ever  there  valsed  and  my  whole  the 
flower  that  stars  the  day  and  is  solly  well  worth  your  pilger's 
fahrt.  Where  there's  a  hitch,  a  head  of  things,  let  henker's  halter 
hang  the  halunkenend.  For  I  see  through  your  weapon.  That 
cry's  not  Cucullus.  And  his  eyelids  are  painted.  If  my  tutor  here 
is  cut  out  for  an  oldeborre  I'm  Flo,  shy  of  peeps,  you  know.  But 
when  he  beetles  backwards,  ain't  I  fly.'*  Pull  the  boughpee  to  see 
how  we  sleep.  Bee  Peep!  Peepette!  Would  you  like  that  lump  of 
a  tongue  for  lungeon  or  this  Turkey's  delighter,  hys  hyphen 
mys.'*  My  bellyswain's  a  twalf  whulerusspower  though  he  knows 
as  much  how  to  man  a  wife  as  Dunckle  Dalton  of  matching  wools. 
Shake  hands  through  the  thicketloch!  Sweet  swanwater!  My 
other  is  mouthfilled.  This  kissing  wold's  full  of  killing  fellows 
kneeling  voyantly  to  the  cope  of  heaven.  And  somebody's  com- 
ing, I  feel  for  a  feet.  I've  a  seeklet  to  sell  thee  if  old  Deanns  won't 
be  threaspanning.  When  you'll  next  have  the  mind  to  retire  to 
be  wicked  this  is  as  dainty  a  way  as  any.  Underwoods  spells  bush- 
ment's  business.  So  if  you  sprig  poplar  you're  bound  to  twig  this. 
'Twas  my  lord  of  Glendalough  benedixed  the  gape  for  me  that 
time  at  Long  Entry,  commanding  the  approaches  to  my  intimast 
innermost.  Look  how  they're  browthered !  Six  thirteens  at  Blanche 
de  Blanche's  of  3  Behind  Street  and  2  Turnagain  Lane.  Awabeg 
is  my  callby,  Magnus  here's  my  Max,  Wonder  One's  my  cipher 
and  Seven  Sisters  is  my  nighbrood.  Radouga,  Rab  will  ye  na 
pick  them  in  their  pink  of  panties.  You  can  colour  up  till  you're 

248 


prawn  while  I  go  squirt  with  any  cockle.  When  here  who  adolls 
me  infuxes  sleep.  But  if  this  could  see  with  its  backsight  he*d 
be  the  grand  old  greeneyed  lobster.  He's  my  first  viewmarc  since 
Valentine.  Wink's  the  winning  word. 
Luck! 

In  the  house  of  breathings  lies  that  word,  all  fairness.  The  walls 
are  of  rubinen  and  the  glittergates  of  elfinbone.  The  roof  herof  is 
of  massicious  jasper  and  a  canopy  of  Tyrian  awning  rises  and 
still  descends  to  it.  A  grape  cluster  of  lights  hangs  therebeneath 
and  all  the  house  is  filled  with  the  breathings  of  her  fairness,  the 
fairness  of  fondance  and  the  fairness  of  milk  and  rhubarb  and  the 
fairness  of  roasted  meats  and  uniomargrits  and  the  fairness  of 
promise  with  consonantia  and  avowals.  There  lies  her  word,  you 
reder !  The  height  herup  exalts  it  and  the  lowness  her  down  aba- 
seth  it.  It  vibroverberates  upon  the  tegmen  and  prosplodes  from 
pomoeria.  A  window,  a  hedge,  a  prong,  a  hand,  an  eye,  a  sign,  a 
head  and  keep  your  other  augur  on  her  paypaypay.  And  you  have 
it,  old  Sem,  pat  as  ah  be  seated!  And  Sunny,  my  gander,  he's 
coming  to  land  her.  The  boy  which  she  now  adores.  She  dores. 
Oh  backed  von  dem  zug!  Make  weg  for  their  tug! 

With  a  ring  ding  dong,  they  raise  clasped  hands  and  advance 
more  steps  to  retire  to  the  saum.  Curtsey  one,  curtsey  two,  with 
arms  akimbo,  devotees. 

Irrelevance. 

All  sing: 

—  I  rose  up  one  maypole  morning  and  saw  in  my  glass  how 
nobody  loves  me  but  you.  Ugh.  Ugh. 

All  point  in  the  shem  direction  as  if  to  shun. 

—  My  name  is  Misha  Misha  but  call  me  Tolfey  Tough.  I 
mean  Mettenchough.  It  was  her,  boy  the  boy  that  was  loft  in  the 
larch.  Ogh!  Ogh! 

Her  reverence. 
All  laugh. 

They  pretend  to  helf  while  they  simply  shauted  at  him  sauce  to 
make  hims  prich.  And  ith  ith  noth  cricquette,  Sally  Lums.  Not 
by  ever  such  a  lot.  Twentynines  of  bloomers  gegging  een  man 

249 


arose.  Avis  was  there  and  trilled  her  about  it.  She's  her  sex,  for 
certain.  So  to  celebrate  the  occasion: 

—  Wiliest  thou  rossy  banders  havind.'^ 

He  simules  to  be  tight  in  ribbings  round  his  rumpfFkorpff. 

—  Are  you  Swarthants  that's  hit  on  a  shorn  stile? 
He  makes  semblant  to  be  swiping  their  chimbleys. 

—  Can  you  ajew  ajew  fro'  Sheidam.^ 

He  finges  to  be  cutting  up  with  a  pair  of  sissers  and  to  be  buy- 
tings  of  their  maidens  and  spitting  their  heads  into  their  facepails. 
Spickspuk!  Spoken. 

So  now  be  hushy,  little  pukers !  Side  here  roohish,  cleany  fug- 
lers!  Grandicellies,  all  stay  zitty!  Adultereux,  rest  as  befour!  For 
youVe  jolly  welly  dawdled  all  the  day.  When  ye  coif  tantoncle's 
hat  then'll  be  largely  temts  for  that.  Yet's  the  time  for  being  now, 
now,  now. 

For  a  burning  would  is  come  to  dance  inane.  Glamours  hath 
moidered's  lieb  and  herefore  Coldours  must  leap  no  more.  Lack 
breath  must  leap  no  more. 

Lei  lols  for  libelman  libling  his  lore.  Lolo  Lolo  liebermann  you 
loved  to  be  leaving  Libnius.  Lift  your  right  to  your  Liber  Lord. 
Link  your  left  to  your  lass  of  liberty.  Lala  Lala,  Leapermann, 
your  lep's  but  a  loop  to  lee. 

A  fork  of  hazel  o'er  the  field  in  vox  the  verveine  virgins  ode. 
If  you  cross  this  rood  as  you  roamed  the  rand  I'm  blessed  but 
you'd  feel  him  a  blasting  rod.  Behind,  me,  frees  from  evil  smells! 
Perdition  stinks  before  us. 

Aghatharept  they  fleurelly  to  Nebnos  will  and  Rosocale.  Twice 
is  he  gone  to  quest  of  her,  thrice  is  she  now  to  him.  So  see  we  so 
as  seed  we  sow.  And  their  prunktqueen  kilt  her  kirtles  up  and 
set  out.  And  her  troup  came  heeling,  O.  And  what  do  you  think 
that  pride  was  drest  in!  Voolykins'  diamondinah's  vestin.  For  ever 
they  scent  where  air  she  went.  While  all  the  fauns'  flares  widens 
wild  to  see  a  floral's  school. 

Led  by  Lignifer,  in  four  hops  of  the  happiest,  ach  beth  cac  duff, 
a  marrer  of  the  sward  incoronate,  the  few  fly  the  farbetween! 
We  haul  minymony  on  that  piebold  nig.  Will  any  dubble  dabble 

250 


^  { r  cJj 


on  the  bay?  Nor  far  jocubus?  Nic  for  jay?  Attilad!  Attattilad!  Get 
up,  Goth's  scourge  on  you!  There's  a  visitation  in  your  implu- 
vium.  Hun!  Hun! 

He  stanth  theirs  mun  in  his  natural,  oblious  autamnesically 
of  his  very  proprium,  (such  is  stockpot  leaden,  so  did  sonsepun 
crake)  the  wont  to  be  wanton  maid  a  will  to  be  wise.  Thrust  from 
the  light,  apophotorejected,  he  spoors  loves  from  her  heats.  He 
blinkth.  But's  wrath's  the  higher  where  those  wreathe  charity. 
For  all  of  these  have  been  thisworlders,  time  liquescing  into  state, 
pitiless  age  grows  angelhood.  Though,  as  he  stehs,  most  anysing 
may  befallhim  from  a  song  of  a  witch  to  the  totter  of  Blackarss, 
given  a  fammished  devil,  a  young  sourceress  and  (eternal  con- 
junction) the  permission  of  overalls  with  the  cuperation  of  night- 
shirt. If  he  spice  east  he  seethes  in  sooth  and  if  he  pierce  north 
he  wilts  in  the  waist.  And  what  wonder  with  the  murkery  vice- 
heid  in  the  shade?  The  specks  on  his  lapspan  are  his  foul  deed 
thougths,  wishmarks  of  mad  imogenation.  Take^the;y  off!  Make 
the  off!  But  Funnylegs  are  leanly.  A  bimbamb  bum!  They  vain 
would  convert  the  to  be  hers  in  the  word.  Gush,  they  wooed! 
Gash,  they're  fair  ripecherry! 

As  for  she  could  shake  him.  An  oaf,  no  more.  Still  he'd  be 
good  tutor  two  in  his  big  armschair  lerningstoel  and  she  be 
waxen  in  his  hands.  Turning  up  and  fingering  over  the  most  dan- 
tellising  peaches  in  the  lingerous  longerous  book  of  the  dark,  a 
Look  at  this  passage  about  Galilleotto!  I  know  it  is  difficult  but 
when  your  goche  I  go  dead.  Turn  now  to  this  patch  upon  Smac- 
chiavelluti!  Soot  allours,  he's  sure  to  spot  it!  'Twas  ever  so  in 
monitorology  since  Headmaster  Adam  became  Eva  Harte's 
toucher,  in  omnibus  morihus  et  temporibus^  with  man's  mischief 
in  his  mind  whilst  her  pupils  swimmed  too  heavenlies,  let  his  be 
exaspirated,  letters  be  blowed!  I  is  a  femaline  person.  O,  of  pro- 
vocative gender.  U  unisingular  case. 

Which  is  why  trumpers  are  mixed  up  in  duels  and  here's  B. 
Rohan  meets  N.  Ohlan  for  the  prize  of  a  thou.  ji.'^ 

But  listen  to  the  mocking  birde  to  micking  barde  making  bared! 
We've  heard  it  aye  since  songdom  was  gemurrmal.  As  he  was 

251 


queering  his  shoolthers.  So  was  1.  And  as  I  was  cleansing  my 
fausties.  So  was  he.  And  as  way  ware  puffiing  our  blowbags. 
Souwouyou. 

Come,  thrust!  Go,  parry!  Dvoinabrathran,  dare!  The  mad 
long  ramp  of  manchind*s  parlements,  the  learned  lackleaming, 
merciless  as  wonderful. 

—  Now  may  Saint  Mowy  of  the  Pleasant  Grin  be  your  ever- 
glass  and  even  prospect! 

—  Feeling  dank. 
Exchange,  reverse. 

—  And  may  Saint  Jerome  of  the  Harlots'  Curse  make  family 
three  of  you  which  is  much  abedder! 

—  Grassy  ass  ago. 

And  each  was  wrought  with  his  other.  And  his  continence  fell. 
The  bivitellines,  Metellus  and  Ametallikos,  her  crown  pretenders, 
obscindgemeinded  biekerers,  varying  directly,  uruseye  each  oxes- 
other,  superfetated  (never  cleaner  of  lamps  frowned  fiercelier  on 
anointer  of  hinges),  while  their  treegrown  girls,  king's  game,  if 
he  deign  so,  are  in  such  transfusion  just  to  know  twigst  timidy 
twomeys,  for  gracious  sake,  who  is  artthoudux  from  whose 
heterotropic,  the  sleepy  or  the  glouch,  for,  shyly  bawn  and 
showly  nursured,  exceedingly  nice  girls  can  strike  exceedingly 
bad  times  unless  so  richtly  chosen's  by  (what  though  of  riches 
he  have  none  and  hope  dashes  hope  on  his  heart's  horizon)  to  gar 
their  great  moments  greater.  The  thing  is  he  must  be  put  strait 
on  the  spot,  no  mere  waterstichystuff  in  a  selfmade  world  that 
you  can't  believe  a  word  he's  written  in,  not  for  pie,  but  one's 
only  owned  by  nature!  rejection.  Charley,  you're  my  darwing! 
So  sing  they  sequent  the  assent  of  man.  Till  they  go  round  if 
they  go  roundagain  before  breakparts  and  all  dismissed.  They 
keep.  Step  keep.  Step.  Stop.  Who  is  Fleur?  Where  is  Ange?  Or 
Gardoun.'* 

Creedless,  croonless  hangs  his  haughty.  There  end  no  moe  red 
devil  in  the  white  of  his  eye.  Braglodyte  him  do  a  katadupe !  A  con- 
damn  quondam  jontom  sick  af  a  suckbut!  He  does  not  know  how 
his  grandson's  grandson's  grandson's  grandson  will  stammer  up 

252 


I 


in  Peruvian  for  in  the  ersebest  idiom  I  have  done  it  equals  I  so 
shall  do.  He  dares  not  think  why  the  grandmother  of  the  grand- 
mother of  his  grandmother's  grandmother  coughed  Russky  with 
suchky  husky  accent  since  in  the  mouthart  of  the  slove  look  at 
me  now  means  I  once  was  otherwise.  Nor  that  the  mappamund 
has  been  changing  pattern  as  youth  plays  moves  from  street  to 
street  since  time  and  races  were  and  wise  ants  hoarded  and  saute- 
relles  were  spendthrifts,  no  thing  making  newthing  wealthshow- 
ever  for  a  silly  old  Sol,  healthytobedder  and  latewiser.  Nor  that  the 
turtling  of  a  London's  alderman  is  ladled  out  by  the  waggerful  to 
the  regionals  of  pigmyland.  His  part  should  say  in  honour  bound: 
So  help  me  symethew,  sammarc,  selluc  and  singin,  I  will  stick  to 
you,  by  gum,  no  matter  what,  bite  simbum,  and  in  case  of  the 
event  coming  off  beforehand  even  so  you  was  to  release  me  for 
the  sake  of  the  other  cheap  girl's  baby's  name  plaster  me  but  I 
will  pluckily  well  pull  on  the  buckskin  gloves !  But  Noodynaady's 
actual  ingrate  tootle  is  of  come  into  the  garner  mauve  and  thy 
nice  are  stores  of  morning  and  buy  me  a  bunch  of  iodines. 

Evidentament  he  has  failed  as  tiercely  as  the  deuce  before  for 
she  is  wearing  none  of  the  three.  And  quite  as  patenly  there  is  a 
hole  in  the  ballet  trough  which  the  rest  fell  out.  Because  to  ex- 
plain why  the  residue  is,  was,  or  will  not  be,  according  to  the 
eighth  axiom,  proceeded  with,  namely,  since  ever  apart  that  gos- 
san duad,  so  sure  as  their's  a  patch  on  a  pomelo,  this  yam  ham  in 
never  live  could,  the  shifting  about  of  the  lassies,  the  tug  of  love 
of  their  lads  ending  with  a  great  deal  of  merriment,  hoots, 
screams,  scarf  drill,  cap  fecking,  ejaculations  of  aurinos,  reecho- 
able  mirthpeals  and  general  thumbtonosery  (Myama's  a  yaung 
yaung  cauntry),  one  must  recken  with  the  sudden  and  gigant- 
esquesque  appearance  unwithstandable  as  a  general  election  in 
Barnado's  bearskin  amongst  the  brawlmiddle  of  this  village  chil- 
dergarten  of  the  largely  longsuffering  laird  of  Lucanhof. 

But,  vrayedevraye  Blankdeblank,  god  of  all  machineries  and 
tomestone  of  Barnstaple,  by  mortisection  or  vivisuture,  splitten 
up  or  recompounded,  an  isaac  jacquemin  mauromormo  milesian, 
how  accountibus  for  him,  moreblue? 

253 


Was  he  pitssched  for  an  ensemple  as  certain  have  dognosed  of 
him  against  our  seawall  by  Rurie,  Thoath  and  Cleaver,  those 
three  stout  sweynhearts,  Orion  of  the  Orgiasts,  Meereschal  Mac- 
Muhun,  the  Ipse  dadden,  product  of  the  extremes  giving  quoti- 
dients  to  our  means,  as  might  occur  to  anyone,  your  brutest 
layaman  with  the  princest  champion  in  our  archdeaconry,  or  so 
yclept  from  Clio's  clippings,  which  the  chroncher  of  chivalries 
is  sulpicious  save  he  scan,  for  ancients  link  with  presents  as  the 
human  chain  extends,  have  done,  do  and  will  again  as  John,  Poly- 
carp  and  Irenews  eye-to-eye  ayewitnessed  and  to  Paddy  Palmer, 
while  monks  sell  yew  to  archers  or  the  water  of  the  livvying 
goes  the  way  of  all  fish  from  Sara's  drawhead,  the  corralsome,  to 
Isaac's,  the  lauphed  butt  one,  with  her  minnelisp  extorreor  to  his 
moanolothe  inturned?  So  Perrichon  with  Bastienne  or  heavy 
Humph  with  airy  Nan,  Ricqueracqbrimbillyjicqueyjocqjolicass? 
How  sowesthow,  dullcisamica}  A  and  aa  ab  ad  abu  abiad.  A 
babbel  men  dub  gulch  of  tears. 

The  mar  of  murmury  mermers  to  the  mind's  ear,  uncharted 
rock,  evasive  weed.  Only  the  caul  knows  his  thousandfirst  name. 
Hocus  Crocus,  Esquilocus,  Finnfinn  the  Faineant,  how  feel  full 
foes  in  furrinarr!  Doth  it  not  all  come  aft  to  you,  puritysnooper, 
in  theJB^ay  television  opes  longtimes  ofter  when  Potollomuck 
Sotyr  or  Sourdanapplous  the  Lollapaloosa?  The  charges  are,  you 
will  remember,  the  chances  are,  you  won't;  bit  it's  old  Joe,  the 
Java  Jane,  older  even  than  Odam  Costollo,  and  we  are  recur- 
rently meeting  em,  par  Mahun  Mesme,  in  cycloannalism,  from 
space  to  space,  time  after  time,  in  various  phases  of  scripture  as 
in  various  poses  of  sepulture.  Greets  Godd,  Groceries!  Merodach! 
Defend  the  King!  Hoet  of  the  rough  throat  attack  but  whose  say 
is  soft  but  whose  ee  has  a  cute  angle,  he  whose  hut  is  a  hissarlik 
even  as  her  hennin's  aspire.  And  insodaintily  she's  a  quine  of  selm 
ashaker  while  as  a  murder  of  corpse  when  his  magot's  up  he's 
the  best  berrathon  sanger  in  all  the  aisles  of  Skaldignavia.  As  who 
shall  hear.  For  now  at  last  is  Longabed  going  to  be  gone  to,  that 
more  than  man,  prince  of  Bunnicombe  of  wide  roadsterds,  tlie 
herblord  the  gillyflowrets  so  fain  fan  to  flatter  about.  Artho  is  the 

254 


name  is  on  the  hero,  Capellisato,  shoehanded  slaughterer  of  the 
shader  of  our  leaves. 

Attach  him!  Hold! 

Yet  stir  thee,  to  clay,  Tamor! 

Why  wilt  thou  ergs'aken  him  from  his  earth,  O  summonor- 
other:  he  is  weatherbitten  from  the  dusts  of  ages?  The  hour  of  his 
closing  hies  to  hand;  the  tocsin  that  shall  claxonise  his  ware- 
abouts.  If  one  who  remembered  his  webgoods  and  tealofts  were 
to  ask  of  a  hooper  for  whose  it  was  the  storks  were  quitting 
Aquileyria,  this  trundler  would  not  wot;  if  other  who  joined  faith 
when  his  depth  charge  bombed  our  barrel  spillway  were  to  — ! 

Jehosophat,  what  doom  is  here !  Rain  ruth  on  them,  sire !  The 
wing  of  Moykill  cover  him!  The  Bulljon  Bossbrute  quarantee 
him!  Calavera,  caution!  Slaves  to  Virtue,  save  his  Veri totem! 
Bearara  T olems^  procul  abeatl  The  Ivorbonegorer  of  Danamara- 
ca  be,  his  Hector  Protector!  Woldomar  with  Vasa,  peel  your 
peeps !  And  try  to  saviourise  the  nights  of  labour  to  the  order  of 
our  blooding  worold!  While  Pliny  the  Younger  writes  to  Pliny 
the  Elder  his  calamolumen  of  contumellas,  what  Aulus  Gellius 
picked  on  Micmacrobius  and  what  Vitruvius  pocketed  from 
Cassiodorus.  Like  we  larnt  from  that  Buke  of  Lukan  in  Dublin's 
capital,  Kongdam  Coombe.  Even  if  you  are  the  kooper  of  the 
winkel  over  measure  never  lost  a  licence.  Nor  a  duckindonche 
divulse  from  bath  and  breakfast.  And  for  the  honour  of  Alcohol 
drop  that  you-know-what-Fve-come-about-I-saw-your-act  air! 
Punch  may  be  pottleproud  but  his  Judy's  a  wife's  wit  better. 

For  the  producer  (Mr  John  Baptister  Vickar)  caused  a  deep 
abuliousness  to  descend  upon  the  Father  of  Truants  and,  at  a  side 
issue,  pluterpromptly  brought  on  the  scene  the  cutletsized  con- 
sort, foundling  filly  of  fortyshilling  fostertailor  and  shipman's 
shopahoyden,  weighing  ten  pebble  ten,  scaling  five  footsy  five 
and  spanning  thirtyseven  inchettes  round  the  good  companions, 
twentynine  ditties  round  the  wishful  waistress,  thirtyseven  alsos 
round  the  answer  to  everything,  twentythree  of  the  same  round 
each  of  the  quis  separabits,  fourteen  round  the  beginning  of  hap- 
piness and  nicely  nine  round  her  shoed  for  slender. 

255 


And  eher  you  could  pray  mercy  to  goodness  or  help  with  your 
hokey  or  mehokeypoo,  Callus's  hen  has  collared  her  pullets. 
That's  where  they  have  owreglias  for.  Their  bone  of  contention, 
flesh  to  their  thorns,  prest  as  Prestissima,  makes  off  in  a  thinkling 
(and  not  one  hen  only  nor  two  hens  neyther  but  every  blessed 
brigid  came  aclucking  and  aclacking),  while,  a  rum  a  rum,  the 
ram  of  all  harns,  Bier,  Wijn,  Spirituosen  for  consumption  on  the 
premises,  advokaat  withouten  pleaders,  Mas  marrit.  Pas  poulit, 
Ras  ruddist  of  all,  though  flamifestouned  from  galantifloures,  is 
hued  and  cried  of  each's  colour. 

Home  all  go.  Halome.  Blare  no  more  ramsblares,  oddmund 
barkes !  And  cease  your  fumings,  kindalled  bushies !  And  sherri- 
goldies  yeassymgnays;  your  wildeshaweshowe  moves  swiftly 
sterneward!  For  here  the  holy  language.  Soons  to  come.  To 
pausse. 

'Tis  goed.  Het  best. 

For  they  are  now  tearing,  that  is,  teartoretorning.  Too  soon 
are  coming  tasbooks  and  goody,  hominy  bread  and  bible  bee, 
with  jaggery-yo  to  juju-jaw,  Fine's  French  phrases  from  the 
Grandmere  des  Grammaires  and  bothered  parsenaps  from  the 
Four  Massores,  Mattatias,  Marusias,  Lucanias,  Jokinias,  and  what 
happened  to  our  eleven  in  thirtytwo  antepostdating  the  Valgur 
Eire  and  why  is  limbo  where  is  he  and  what  are  the  sound  waves  V 
saying  ceased  ere  they  all  wayed  wrong  and  Amnist  anguished 
axes  Collis  and  where  fishngaman  fetched  the  mongafesh  from 
and  whatfor  paddybird  notplease  rancoon  and  why  was  Sindat 
sitthing  on  him  sitbom  Uke  a  saildior,  with  what  the  doc  did  in  the 
doil,  not  to  mention  define  the  hydraulics  of  common  salt  and, 
its  denier  crid  of  old  provaunce,  where  G.P.O.  is  zentrum  and 
D.U.T.C.  are  radients  write  down  by  the  frequency  of  the  scores 
and  crores  of  your  refractions  the  valuations  in  the  pice  of  ding- 
gyings  on  N.C.R.  and  S.C.R. 

That  little  cloud,  a  nibulissa,  still  hangs  isky.  Singabed  sulks 
before  slumber.  Light  at  night  has  an  alps,  on  his  druckhouse. 
Thick  head  and  thin  butter  or  after  you  with  me.  Caspi,  but 
gueroligue  stings  the  air.  Gaylegs  to  riot  of  us!  Gallocks  to  lafft! 

256 


.J- 


yvA- 


(  0" 


What  is  amaid  today  todo?  So  angelland  all  weeping  bin  that  Izzy 
most  unhappy  is.  Fain  Essie  fie  onhapje?  laughs  her  stella/s  vispirine. 

While,  running  about  their  ways,  going  and  coming,  now  at 
rhimba  rhomba,  now  in  trippiza  trappaza,  pleating  a  pattern  Gran  ^  ^  ,^  ^ 
Geamatron  showed  them  of  gracehoppers,  auntskippers  and  coney- 
farm  leppers,  they  jeerilied  along,  durian  gay  and  marian  maid-  ^  ^e^'f  ^ 
cap,  lou  Dariou  beside  la  Matieto,  all  boy  more  all  girl  singout-  r 
feller  longa  house  blong  store  Huddy,  whilest  nin  nin  nin  nin  that 
Boorman's  clock,  a  winny  on  the  tinny  side,  ninned  nin  nin  nin 
nin,  about  old  Father  Barley  how  he  got  up  of  a  morning  arley 
and  he  met  with  a  plattonem  blondes  named  Hips  and  Haws  and 
fell  in  with  a  fellows  of  Trinity  some  header  Skowood  Shaws  like 
(You'll  catch  it,  don't  fret,  Mrs  Tummy  Lupton!  Come  indoor, 
Scoffynosey,  and  shed  your  swank!)  auld  Daddy  Deacon  who 
could  stow  well  his  place  of  beacon  but  he  never  could  hold  his 
kerosene's  candle  to  (The  nurse'll  give  it  you,  stickypots !  And  you 
wait,  my  lasso,  fecking  the  twine!)  bold  Farmer  Burleigh  who 
wuck  up  in  a  hurlywurly  where  he  huddly  could  wuddle  to  wal- 
low his  weg  tillbag  of  the  baker's  booth  to  beg  of  (You're  well 
held  now.  Missy  Cheekspeer,  and  your  panto's  off!  Fie,  for  shame, 
Ruth  Wheatacre,  after  all  the  booz  said!)  illed  Diddiddy  Achin 
for  the  prize  of  a  pease  of  bakin  with  a  pinch  of  the  panch  of  the 
ponch  in  jurys  for  (Ah,  crabeyes,  I  have  you,  showing  off  to  the 
world  with  that  gape  in  your  stocking!)  Wold  Forrester  Farley 
who,  in  deesperation  of  deispiration  at  the  diasporation  of  his 
diesparation,  was  found  of  the  round  of  the  sound  of  the  lound  a 
of  the.  Lukkedoerendunandurraskewdylooshoofermoyportertoo-  ^ 
ryzooysphalnabortansporthaokansakroidverjkapakkapuk. 

Upploud!  ^  -       ^  ^'^    C-CrtiL^  . 

The  play  thou  schouwburgst.  Game,  here  endeth.  The  curtain 
drops  by  deep  request. 
Uplouderamain ! 

\^  Gonn  the  gawds,  Gunnar's  gustspells.  When  the  h,  who  the 
hu,  how  the  hue,  where  the  huer.'^  Orbiter  onswers:  lots  lives 
lost.  Fionia  is  fed  up  with  Fidge  Fudgesons.  Sealand  snorres. 

257 


Rendningrocks  roguesreckning  reigns.  Gwds  with  gurs  are 
