
I 


i 

I 


tials.  Burial  of  Lifetenant-Groevener  Hatchett,  R.I.D.  Devine's 
Previdence. 
Ls.  De. 

Art  thou  gainous  sense  uncompetite!  Limited.  Anna  Lynchya 
Pourable !  One  and  eleven.  United  We  Stand,  even  many  offered. 
Don't  forget.  I  wish  auspicable  thievesdayte  for  the  stork  dyrby. 
It  will  be  a  thousand's  a  won  paddies.  And  soon  to  bet.  On  drums 
of  bliss.  With  hapsalap  troth,  hipsalewd  prudity,  hopesalot  hon- 
nessy,  hoopsaloop  luck.  After  when  from  midnights  unwards  the 
fourposter  harp  quartetto.  (Kiskiviikko,  Kalastus.  Torstaj,  tanssia. 
Perjantaj,  peleja.  Lavantaj  ja  Sunnuntaj,  christianismus  kirjallisuus, 
kirjallisuus  christianismus.)  Whilesd  this  pellover  his  finnisch. 

—  Comither,  ahorace,  thou  mighty  man  of  valour,  elderman 
adaptive  of  Capel  Ysnod,  and  tsay-fong  tsei-foun  a  laun  bricks- 
number  till  I've  fined  you  a  faulter-in-law,  to  become  your  son- 
to-be,  gentlemens  tealer,  generalman  seelord,  gosse  and  bosse, 
hunguest  and  horasa,  jonjemsums  both,  in  sailsmanship,  szed  the 
head  marines  talebearer,  then  sayd  the  ships  gospfather  in  the  scat 
story  to  the  husband's  capture  and  either  you  does  or  he  musts 
and  this  moment  same,  sayd  he,  so  let  laid  pacts  be  being  betving 
ye,  he  sayd,  by  my  main  makeshift,  he  sayd,  one  fisk  and  one  flesk, 
as  flat  as,  Aestmand  Addmundson  you,  you're  iron  slides  and  so 
hompety  domp  as  Paddley  Mac  Namara  here  he's  a  hardy  canooter, 
for  the  two  breasts  of  Banba  are  her  soilers  and  her  toilers,  if  thou 
wilt  serve  Idyall  as  thou  hast  sayld.  Brothers  Boathes,  brothers 
Coathes,  ye  have  swallen  blooders'  oathes.  And  Gophar  sayd  unto 
Glideon  and  sayd  he  to  the  nowedding  captain,  the  rude  hunner- 
able  Humphrey,  who  was  praying  god  of  clothildies  by  the  seven 
bosses  of  his  trunktarge  he  would  save  bucklesome  when  she 
wooed  belove  on  him,  comeether,  sayd  he,  my  merrytime  mare- 
lupe,  you  wutan  whaal,  sayd  he,  into  the  shipfolds  of  our  quad- 
rupede  island,  bless  madhugh,  mardyk,  luusk  and  cong!  Blass 
Neddos  bray!  And  no  more  of  your  maimed  acts  after  this  with 
your  kowtoros  and  criados  to  every  tome,  thick  and  heavy,  and 
our  onliness  of  his  revelance  to  your  ultitude.  The  illfollowable 
staying  in  wait  for  you  with  the  winning  word  put  into  his  mouth 

325 


or  be  the  hooley  tabell,  as  Horrocks  Toler  hath  most  cares  to  call 
it,  I'll  rehearse  your  comeundermends  and  first  mardhyr  you  en- 
tirely. As  puck  as  that  Paddeus  picked  the  pun  and  left  the  lollies 
off  the  foiled.  A  Trinity  judge  will  crux  your  boom.  Pat  is  the 
man  for  thy.  Ay  ay!  And  he  pured  him  beheild  of  the  ouishguss, 
mingling  a  sign  of  the  cruisk.  I  popetithes  thee,  Ocean,  sayd  he, 
Oscarvaughther,  sayd  he,  Erievikkingr,  sayd  he,  intra  trifum 
triforium  trifoliorum,  sayd  he,  onconditionally,  forfor  furst  of  giel- 
gaulgalls  and  hero  chief  explunderer  of  the  clansakiltic,  sayd  he, 
the  streameress  mastress  to  the  sea  aase  cuddycoalman's  and  let 
this  douche  for  you  as  a  wholly  apuzzler's  and  for  all  the  puk- 
kaleens  to  the  wakes  of  you,  sayd  he,  out  of  the  hellsinky  of  the 
howtheners  and  be  danned  to  ye,  sayd  he,  into  our  roomyo  con- 
nellic  relation,  sayd  he,  from  which  our  this  pledge  is  given,  Tera 
truly  ternatrine  if  not  son  towards  thousand  like  expect  chrisan 
athems  to  which  I  osker  your  godhsbattaring,  saelir,  for  as  you 
gott  kvold  whereafter  a  gooden  diggin  and  with  gooder  enscure 
from  osion  buck  fared  agen  fairioes  feuded  hailsohame  til  Edar 
in  that  the  loyd  mave  hercy  on  your  sael!  Anomyn  and  awer. 
Spickinusand. 

—  Nansense,  you  snorsted.'^  he  was  haltid  considerable  agenst 
all  religions  overtrow  so  hworefore  the  thokkurs  pokker  the  big- 
bug  miklamanded  storstore  exploder  would  he  be  whulesalesolde 
daadooped  by  Priest  Gudfodren  of  the  sacredhaunt  suit  in 
Diaeblen-Balkley  at  Domnkirk  Saint  Petricksburg.^  But  ear  this: 

— And  here,  aaherra,  my  rere  admirable  peadar  poulsen,  sayd 
he,  consistently,  to  the  secondnamed  sutor,  my  lately  lamented 
sponsorship,  comesend  round  that  wine  and  lift  your  horn,  sayd 
he,  to  show  you're  a  skolar  for,  winter  you  likes  or  not,  we 
brought  your  summer  with  us  and,  tomkin  about  your  lief  eurek- 
ason  and  his  undishcovery  of  americle,  be  the  rolling  forties,  he 
sayd,  and  on  my  sopper  crappidamn,  as  Harris  himself  says,  to  let 
you  in  on  some  crismion  dottrin,  here  is  the  ninethest  pork  of  a  man 
whisk  swimmies  in  Dybblin  water  from  Ballscodden  easthmost 
till  Thyrston's  Lickslip  and,  sayd  he,  (whiles  the  heart  of  Lukky 
Swayn  slaughed  in  his  icebox  for  to  think  of  all  the  soorts  of 

326 


smukklers  he  would  behave  in  juteyfrieze  being  forelooper  to  her) 
praties  peel  to  our  goodsend  Brandonius,  ^zAW  of  a  Cara,  spouse 
to  Fynlogue,  he  has  the  nicesth  pert  of  a  nittlewoman  in  the 
house,  la  chito,  la  chato,  la  Charmadouiro,  Tina-bat-Talur,  cif  for 
your  fob  and  a  tesura  astore  for  you,  eslucylamp  aswhen  the  surge 
seas  sombren,  that  he  daughts  upon  of  anny  livving  plusquebelle, 
to  child  and  foster,  that's  the  lippeyear's  wonder  of  Totty  go, 
Newschool,  two  titty  too  at  win  winnie  won,  tramity  trimming  and 
funnity  fare,  with  a  grit  as  hard  as  the  trent  of  the  thimes  but  a 
touch  as  saft  as  the  dee  in  flooing  and  never  a  Hyderow  Jenny  the 
like  of  her  lightness  at  look  and  you  leap,  rheadoromanscing  long 
evmans  invairn,  about  little  Anny  Roners  and  all  the  Lavinias  of 
ester  yours  and  pleding  for  them  to  herself  in  the  periglus  glatsch 
hangs  over  her  trickle  bed,  it's  a  piz  of  fortune  if  it  never  falls  from 
the  stufFel,  and,  when  that  mallaura's  over  till  next  time  and  all  the 
prim  rossies  are  out  dressparading  and  the  tubas  tout  tout  for  the 
glowru  of  their  god,  making  every  Dinny  dingle  after  her  down 
the  Dargul  dale  and  (wait  awhile,  blusterbuss,  you're  marchadant 
too  forte  and  don't  start  furlan  your  ladins  till  you' ve  learned  the 
lie  of  her  landuage!),  when  it's  summwer  calding  and  she  can  hear 
the  pianutunar  beyant  the  bayondes  in  Combria  sleepytalking  to 
the  Wiltsh  muntons,  titting  out  through  her  droemer  window 
for  the  flyend  of  a  touchman  over  the  wishtas  of  English  Strand, 
when  Kilbarrack  bell  pings  saksalaisance  that  Concessas  with 
Sinbads  may  (pong!),  where  our  dollimonde  sees  the  phantom 
shape  of  Mr  Fortunatus  Wright  since  winksome  Miss  Bulkeley 
made  loe  to  her  wrecker  and  he  took  her  to  be  a  rover,  O,  and 
playing  house  of  ivary  dower  of  gould  and  gift  you  soil  me 
peepat  my  prize,  which  its  a  blue  loogoont  for  her  in  a  bleakeyed 
seusan  if  she  can't  work  her  mireiclles  and  give  Norgeyborgey 
good  airish  timers,  while  her  fresh  racy  turf  is  kindly  kindling  up 
the  lower  with  the  flu,  with  a  roaryboaryellas  would  set  an  Eri- 
weddyng  on  fire,  let  aloon  an  old  Humpopolamos  with  the  boomar- 
poorter  on  his  brain,  aiden  bay  scye  and  dye,  aasbukividdy, 
twentynine  to  her  dozen  and  coocoo  him  didulceydovely  to  his 
old  cawcaws  huggin  and  munin  for  his  strict  privatear  which 

327 


there's  no  pure  rube  like  an  ool  pool  roober  when  your  pullar 
beer  turns  out  Bruin  O'Luinn  and  beat  his  barge  into  a  battering 
pram  with  her  wattling  way  for  cubblin  and,  be  me  fairy  fay,  sayd 
he,  the  marriage  mixter,  to  Kersse,  Son  of  Joe  Ashe,  her  coax- 
fonder,  wiry  eyes  and  winky  hair,  timkin  abeat  your  Andraws 
Meltons  and  his  lovsang  of  the  short  and  shifty,  I  will  turn  my 
thinks  to  things  alove  and  I  will  speak  but  threes  ones,  sayd  he, 
my  truest  patrions  good  founter,  poles  a  port  and  zones  asunder, 
tie  up  in  hates  and  repeat  at  luxure,  you  can  better  your  tooblue 
prodestind  arson,  tyler  bach,  after  roundsabouts  and  donochs  and 
the  volumed  smoke,  though  the  clonk  in  his  stumble  strikes  warn, 
and  were  he  laid  out  on  that  counter  there  like  a  Slavocrates 
amongst  his  skippies,  when  it  comes  to  the  ride  onerable,  sayd  he, 
that's  to  make  plain  Nanny  Ni  Sheeres  a  full  Dinamarqueza,  and 
all  needed  for  the  lay,  from  the  hursey  on  the  montey  with  the 
room  in  herberge  down  to  forkpiece  and  bucklecatch,  (Elding, 
my  elding!  and  Lif,  my  lif!)  in  the  pravacy  of  the  pirmanocturne, 
hap,  sayd  he,  at  that  meet  hour  of  night,  and  hop,  sayd  he,  and  the 
fyrsty  annas  everso  thried  (whiles  the  breath  of  Huppy  Hulles- 
pond  swumped  in  his  seachest  for  to  renumber  all  the  mallyme- 
dears'  long  roll  and  call  of  sweetheart  emmas  that  every  had  a 
port  in  from  CoxerJiagen  till  the  brottels  on  the  Nile),  while 
taylight  is  yet  slipping  under  their  pillow,  (ill  omens  on  Kitty 
Cole  if  she's  spilling  laddy's  measure!)  and  before  Sing  Mattins  in 
the  Fields,  ringsengd  ringsengd,  bings  Heri  the  Concorant  Erho, 
and  the  Referinn  Fuchs  Gutmann  gives  us  77/  Bell  the  Welled  or 
The  Steeplepoy  s  Revanger  and  all  Thingavalley  knows  for  its 
never  dawn  in  the  dark  but  the  deed  comes  to  life,  and  raptist  bride 
is  aptist  breed  (tha  lassy!  tha  lassy!),  and,  to  buoy  the  hoop 
within  us  springing,  'tis  no  timbertar  she'll  have  then  in  her  arms- 
brace  to  doll  the  dallydandle,  our  fiery  quean,  upon  tlie  night  ot 
the  things  of  the  night  of  the  making  to  stand  up  the  double 
tet  of  the  oversear  of  the  seize  who  cometh  from  the  mighty 
deep  and  on  the  night  of  making  Horuse  to  crihumph  over  his 
enemy,  be  the  help  of  me  cope  as  so  pluse  the  riches  of  the  roed- 
shields,  with  Elizabeliza  blessing  the  bedpain,  at  the  willbedone 

328 


I 


III 


of  Yinko  Jinko  Randy,  come  Bastabasco  and  hippychip  eggs,  she 
will  make  a  suomease  pair  and  singlette,  jodhpur  smalls  and  tailor- 
less,  a  copener's  cribful,  leaf,  bud  and  berry,  the  divlin's  own  little 
mimmykin  puss,  (hip,  hip,  horatia!)  for  my  old  comrhade  salty- 
mar  here,  Briganteen — General  Sir  A.  I.  Magnus,  the  flapper- 
nooser,  master  of  the  good  lifebark  Ulivengrene  of  Onslought, 
and  the  homespund  of  her  hearth,  (Fuss  his  farther  was  the  norse 
norse  east  and  Muss  his  mother  was  a  gluepot)  and,  gravydock  or 
groovy  anker,  and  a  hulldread  pursunk  manowhood,  who  (with 
a  chenchen  for  his  delight  time  and  a  bonzeye  nappin  through  his 
doze)  he  is  the  bettest  bluffy  blondblubber  of  an  olewidgeon  what 
overspat  a  skettle  in  a  skib.  ' 

Cawcaught.  Coocaged.  -  ^ 

And  Dub  did  glow  that  night.  In  Fingal  of  victories.  Cann- 
matha  and  Cathlin  sang  together.  And  the  three  shouters  of 
glory.  Yelling  halfviewed  their  harps.  Surly  Tubal  smiled  upon 
drear  Darthoola:  and  Roscranna's  bolgaboyo  begirlified  the 
daughter  of  Cormac.  The  soul  of  everyelsesbody  rolled  into  its 
olesoleself.  A  doublemonth's  licence,  lease  on  mirth,  while  hooney- 
moon  and  her  flame  went  huneysuckling.  Holyryssia,  what  boom 
of  bells!  What  battle  of  bragues  on  Sandgate  where  met  the  bobby 
mobbed  his  bibby  mabbing  through  the  ryce.  Even  Tombs  left 
doss  and  dunnage  down  in  Demidoff 's  tomb  and  drew  on  the 
dournailed  clogs  that  Morty  Manning  left  him  and  legged  in  by 
Ghoststown  Gate,  like  Pompei  up  to  date,  with  a  sprig  of  White- 
boys  heather  on  his  late  Luke  Elcock's  heirloom.  And  some  say 
they  seen  old  dummydeaf  with  a  leaf  of  bronze  on  his  cloak 
so  grey,  trooping  his  colour  a  pace  to  the  reire.  And  as  owfally 
posh  with  his  halfcrown  jool  as  if  he  was  the  Granjook  Meckl  or 
Paster  de  Grace  on  the  Route  de  I'Epee.  It  was  joobileejeu  that 
All  Sorts'  Jour.  Freestouters  and  publicranks,  hafts  on  glaives. 
You  could  hear  them  swearing  threaties  on  the  Cymylaya 
Mountains,  man.  And  giving  it  out  to  the  Ould  Fathach  and  louth- 
mouthing  after  the  Healy  Mealy  with  an  enfysis  to  bring  down 
the  rain  of  Tarar.  Nevertoletta !  Evertomind!  The  grandest 
bethehailey  seen  or  heard  on  earth's  conspectrum  since  Scape 

329 


the  Goat,  that  gafr,  ate  the  Suenders  bible.  Hadn't  we  heaven's 
lamps  to  hide  us?  Yet  every  lane  had  its  lively  spark  and  every 
spark  had  its  several  spurtles  and  each  spitfire  spurtle  had  some 
trick  of  her  trade,  a  tease  for  Ned,  nook's  nestle  for  Fred  and 
a  peep  at  me  mow  for  Peer  Pol.  So  that  Father  Matt  Hughes 
looked  taytotally  threbled.  But  Danno  the  Dane  grimmed.  Dune. 
'Twere  yeg  will  elsecare  doatty  lanv  meet  they  dewscent  hyemn 
to  cannons'  roar  and  rifles'  peal  vill  shantey  soloweys  sang!  For 
there  were  no  more  Tyrrhanees  and  for  Laxembraghs  was  pass- 
thecupper  to  Our  Lader's.  And  it  was  dim  upon  the  floods  only 
and  there  was  day  on  all  the  ground. 

Thus  street  spins  legends  while  wharves  woves  tales  but  some 
family  fewd  felt  a  nick  in  their  name.  Old  Vickers  sate  down  on 
their  airs  and  straightened  the  points  of  their  lace.  Red  Rowleys 
popped  out  of  their  lairs  and  asked  what  was  wrong  with  the 
race.  Mick  na  Murrough  used  dripping  in  layers  to  shave 
all  the  furze  off  his  face.  The  Burke-Lees  and  Coyle-Finns 
paid  full  feines  for  their  sinns  when  the  Cap  and  Miss  Coolie 
were  roped. 
(/^A^^^^:^::^  ,Rolloraped. 

With  her  banbax  hoist  from  holder,  zig  for  zag  through  pool 
and  polder,  cheap,  cheap,  cheap  and  Laughing  Jack,  all  augurs 
scorenning,  see  the  Bolche  your  pictures  motion  and  Kitzy 
Kleinsuessmein  eloping  for  that  holm  in  Finn's  Hotel  Fiord, 
Nova  Norening.  Where  they  pulled  down  the  kuddle  and  they 
made  fray  and  if  thee  don't  look  homey,  well,  that  Dook  can  eye 
Mae. 

He  goat  a  berth.  And  she  cot  a  manege.  And  wohl's  gorse 
mundom  ganna  wedst. 

Knock  knock.  War's  where!  Which  war.'*  The  Twwinns. 
Knock  knock.  Woos  without!  Without  what?  An  apple.  Knock 
.  knock. 

rv  kilder  massed,  one  then  and  uhindred,  (barefoot,  birdy- 

hands,  herringabone,  beesknees),  and  they  barneydansked  a 
kathareen  round  to  know  the  who  and  to  show  the  howsome. 
Why  was  you  hiding,  moder  of  moders?  And  where  was  hunty, 

330 


I 

II 


poppa  the  gun?  Pointing  up  to  skyless  heaven  like  the  spoon  out 
of  sergeantmajor's  tay.  Which  was  the  worst  of  them  phaymix 
cupplerts?  He's  herd  of  hoarding  and  her  faiths  is  altared.  Becom- 
ing ungoing,  their  seeming  sames  for  though  that  liamstone 
deaf  do  his  part  there's  a  windtreetop  whipples  the  damp  off  the 
mourning.  But  tellusit  allasif  wellasits  end.  And  the  lunger  it 
takes  the  swooner  they  tumble  two.  He  knows  he's  just  thrilling 
and  she's  sure  she'd  squeam.  The  threelegged  man  and  the  tulip- 
pied  dewydress.  Lludd  hillmythey,  we're  brimming  to  hear!  The 
durst  he  did  and  the  first  she  ever?  Peganeen  Bushe,  this  isn't  the 
polkar,  catch  as  you  cancan  when  high  land  fling!  And  you  Tim 
Tommy  Melooney,  I'll  tittle  your  barents  if  you  stick  that  pigpin 
upinto  meh! 

So  in  the  names  of  the  balder  and  of  the  sol  and  of  the  holli- 
chrost,  ogsowearit,  trisexnone,  and  by  way  of  letting  the  aandt 
out  of  her  grosskropper  and  leading  the  mokes  home  by  their 
gribes,  whoopsabout  a  plabbaside  of  plobbicides,  alamam  alemon, 
poison  kerls,  on  this  mounden  of  Delude,  and  in  the  high  places 
of  Delude  of  Isreal,  which  is  Haraharem  and  the  diublin's  owld 
mounden  over  against  Vikens,  from  your  tarns,  thwaites  and 
thorpes,  withes,  tofts  and  fosses,  fells,  haughs  and  shaws,  lunds, 
garths  and  dales,  mensuring  the  megnominous  as  so  will  is  the 
littleyest,  the  myrioheartzed  with  toroidal  coil,  eira  area  round 
wantanajocky,  fin  above  wave  after  ducky  do  wndivvy,  trader  arm 
aslung  beauty  belt,  the  formor  velican  and  nana  karlikeevna, 
sommerlad  and  cinderenda,  Valtivar  and  Viv,  how  Big  Bil  Brine 
Borumoter  first  took  his  gage  at  lil  lolly  lavvander  waader  since 
when  capriole  legs  covets  limbs  of  a  crane  and  was  it  the  twylyd 
or  the  mounth  of  the  yare  or  the  feint  of  her  smell  made  the  seo- 
men  assalt  of  her  (in  imageascene  all:  whimwhim  whimwhim).  T^^"/ 
To  the  laetification  of  disgeneration  by  neuhumorisation  of  our  i  ^^^^' 
kristianiasation.  As  the  last  liar  in  the  earth  begeylywayled  the 
first  lady  of  the  forest.  Though  Toot's  pardoosled  sauve  I'hum- 
mour!  For  the  joy  of  the  dew  on  the  flower  of  the  fleets  on  the 
fields  of  the  foam  of  the  waves  of  the  seas  of  the  wild  main  from 
Borneholm  has  jest  come  to  crown.  5^2'  iC> 

331 


Snip  snap  snoody.  Noo  err  historyend  goody.  Of  a  lil  trip 
trap  and  a  big  treeskooner  for  he  put  off  the  ketyl  and  they 
^<SL         made  three  (for  fie!)  and  if  hec  dont  love  alpy  then  lad  you 
annoy  me.  For  hanigen  with  hunigen  still  haunt  ahunt  to  finnd 
^  their  hinnigen  where  Pappappapparrassannuaragheallachnatull- 

\\\  ^0 '  aghmonganmacmacmacwhackfalltherdebblenonthedubblandadd- 
.        y doodled  and  anruly  person  creeked  a  jest.  Gestapose  to  parry 
^  ?\off  cheekars  or  frankfurters  on  the  odor.  Fine  again,  Cuoholson! 
.  C        ^l^eace,  O  wiley! 

Such  was  die  act  of  goth  stepping  the  tolk  of  Doolin,  drain 
and  plantage,  wattle  and  daub,  with  you'll  peel  as  Fll  pale  and 
we'll  pull  the  boath  toground  togutter,  testies  touchwood  and 
shenstone  unto  pop  and  puma,  calf  and  condor,  under  all  the 
gaauspices  (incorporated),  the  chal  and  his  chi,  their  roammerin 
over,  gribgrobgrab  reining  trippetytrappety  (so  fore  shalt  thou 
flow,  else  thy  cavern  hair!)  to  whom  she  (anit  likenand  please- 
thee!).  Till  sealump  becamedump  to  bumpslump  a  lifflebed, 
(alto la,  allamarsch!  O  gue,  O  gue!).  Kaemper  Daemper  to  Jetty 
de  Waarft,  all  the  weight  of  that  mons  on  his  litde  ribbeunuch! 
Him  that  gronde  old  mand  to  be  that  haard  of  heaering  (afore 
said)  and  her  the  petty  tondur  with  the  fix  in  her  changeable 
eye  (which  see).  Lord,  me  lad,  he  goes  with  blowbierd,  leedy, 
plasheous  stream.  But  before  that  his  loudship  was  converted  to 
a  landshop  there  was  a  little  theogamyjig  incidence  that  hoppy- 
go-jumpy  Junuary  morn  when  he  colluded  with  the  cad  out  on 
the  beg  amudst  the  fiounaregal  gaames  of  those  oathmassed 
fenians  for  whome  he's  forcecaused  a  bridge  of  the  piers,  at 
InverlefFy,  mating  pontine  of  their  engagement,  synnbildising 
graters  and  things,  eke  ysendt.'^  O  nilly,  not  all,  here's  the  first 
cataraction!  As  if  ever  she  cared  an  assuan  damm  about  her 
harpoons  sticking  all  out  of  him  whet  between  phoenix  his 
calipers  and  that  psourdonome  sheath.  Sdrats  ye,  Gus  Paudheen ! 
Kenny's  thought  ye,  Dinny  Oozle!  While  the  cit  was  leaking 
asphalt  like  a  suburbiaurealis  in  liis  rure  was  tucking  to  him  like 
old  booths,  booths,  booths,  booths. 

Enterruption.  Check  or  slowback.  Dvershen. 

332 


^'-^ 


/ 


&  4.  tiff    I  ^^^^ 


Why,  wonder  of  wenchalows,  what  o  szeszame  open,  v  doer  s  t 
doing?  V  door  s  being.  But  how  theng  thingajarry  miens  but  this 
being  becoming  n  z  doer?  K?  An  o.  It  is  ne  not  him  what  foots 
like  a  glove,  shoehandschiner  Pad  Podomkin.  Sooftly,  anni 
slavey,  szszuszchee  is  slowjaneska. 

The  aged  crafty  nummifeed  confusionary  overinsured  ever- 
lapsing  accentuated  katekattershin  clopped,  clopped,  clopped, 
darsey  dobrey,  back  and  along  the  danzing  corridor,  as  she  was 
going  to  pimpim  him,  way  boy  wally,  not  without  her  comple- 
ment of  cavarnan  men,  between  the  two  deathdealing  allied 
divisions  and  the  lines  of  readypresent  fire  of  the  corkedagains  up- 
stored,  taken  in  giving  the  saloot,  band  your  hands  going  in,  bind 
your  heads  coming  out,  and  remoltked  to  herselp  in  her  serf's 
alown,  a  weerpovy  willowy  dreevy  drawly  and  the  patter  of  so 
familiars,  farabroads  and  behomeans,  as  she  shure  sknows,  boof 
for  a  booby,  boo:  new  uses  in  their  mewseyfume.  The  jammesons 
is  a  cook  in  his  hair.  And  the  juinnesses  is  a  rapin  his  hind.  And 
the  Bullingdong  caught  the  wind  up.  Dip. 

And  the  message  she  braught  belaw  from  the  missus  she 
bragged  abouve  that  had  her  agony  stays  outsize  her  sari  chemise, 
blancking  her  shifts  for  to  keep  up  the  fascion  since  the  king  of 
all  dronnings  kissed  her  beeswixed  hand,  fang  (pierce  me,  hunky, 
I'm  full  of  meunders!),  her  fize  like  a  tubtail  of  mondayne 
clothes,  fed  to  the  chaps  with  working  medicals  and  her  birthright 
pang  that  would  split  an  atam  like  the  forty  pins  in  her  hood,  was 
to  fader  huncher  a  howdydowdy,  to  mountainy  mots  in  her 
amnest  plein  language,  from  his  fain  a  wan,  his  hot  and  tot  lass, 
to  pierce  his  ropeloop  ear,  how,  Podushka  be  prayhasd,  now  the 
sowns  of  his  loins  were  awinking  and  waking  and  his  dorter  of 
the  hush  lillabilla  lullaby  (lead  us  not  into  reformication  with  the 
poors  in  your  thingdom  of  gory,  O  moan!),  once  after  males, 
nonce  at  a  time,  with  them  Murphy's  puffs  she  dursted  with 
gnockmeggs  and  the  bramborry  cake  for  dour  dorty  dompling 
obayre  Mattom  Beetom  and  epsut  the  pfot  and  if  he  was  whishtful 
to  licture  her  caudal  with  chesty  chach  from  his  dauberg  den 
and  noviny  news  from  Naul  or  toplots  talks  from  morrienbaths 

333 


or  a  parrotsprate's  cure  for  ensevelised  lethurgies,  spick's  my 
spoon  and  the  veriblest  spoon,  'twas  her  hour  for  the  chamber's 
ensallycopodium  with  love  to  melost  Panny  Kostello  from 
X.Y.  Zid  for  to  folly  billybobbis  gibits  porzy  punzy  and  she  was 
a  wanton  for  De  Marera  to  take  her  genial  glow  to  bed. 

—  This  is  time  for  my  tubble,  reflected  Mr  *  Gladstone 
Browne'  in  the  toll  hut  (it  was  choractoristic  from  that  'man  of 
Delgany').  Dip. 

—  This  is  me  vulcanite  smoking,  profused  Mr  'Bonaparte 
Nolan'  under  the  natecup  (one  feels  how  one  may  hereby  reekig- 
nites  the  'ground  old  mahonagyan').  Dip. 

—  And  this  is  defender  of  defeater  of  defaulter  of  deformer 
of  the  funst  man  in  Danelagh,  willingtoned  in  with  this  glance 
dowon  his  browen  and  that  born  appalled  noodlum  the  panellite 
pair's  cummal  delimitator,  odding:  Oliver  White,  he's  as  tiff  as 
she's  tight.  And  thisens  his  speak  quite  hoarse.  Dip. 

In  reverence  to  her  midgetsy  the  lady  of  the  comeallyous  as 
madgestoo  our  own  one's  goff  stature.  Prosim,  prosit,  to  the 
krk  n  yr  nek  I 

O  rum  it  is  the  chomicalest  thing  how  it  pickles  up  the  punchey 
and  the  jude.  If  you'll  gimmy  your  thing  to  me  I  will  gamey  a  sing 
to  thee.  Stay  where  you're  dummy!  To  get  her  to  go  ther.  He 
banged  the  scoop  and  she  bagged  the  sugar  while  the  whole 
pub's  pobbel  done  a  stare.  On  the  mizzatint  wall.  With  its  chromo 
for  all,  crimm  crimms.  Showing  holdmenag's  asses  sat  by  Allme- 
neck's  men,  canins  to  ride  with  em,  canins  that  lept  at  em,  woollied 
and  flundered. 

So  the  katey's  came  and  the  katey's  game.  As  so  gangs  sludge- 
nose.  And  that  henchwench  what  hopped  it  dunneth  there  duft 
the.  Duras. 

(Silents) 

Yes,  we've  conned  thon  print  in  its  gloss  so  gay  how  it  came 
from  Finndlader's  Yule  to  die  day  and  it's  Hey  Tallaght  Hoe  on 
the  king's  highway  with  his  hounds  on  the  home  at  a  turning. 
To  Donnicoombe  Fairing.  Millikin's  Pass.  When  visiting  at 
Izd-la-Chapelle  taste  the  lipe  of  the  waters  from  Carlowman's  Cup. 

334 


* 


^  

i 


.4^'  AT 


It  tellyhows  its  story  to  their  six  of  hearts,  a  twelve-eyed  man; 
for  whom  has  madjestky  who  since  is  dyed  drown  reign  before 
the  izba. 

Au!  Au!  Aue!  Ha!  Heish!    r^^"'^     r  M?.-e/t7 
As  stage  to  set  by  ritual  rote  for  the  grimm  grimm  tale  of  the 
four  of  hyacinths,  the  deafeeled  carp  and  the  bugler's  dozen  of  l^^-^ 
leagues-in-amour  or  how  Holispolis  went  to  Parkland  with 
mabby  and  sammy  and  sonny  and  sissy  and  mop's  varlet  de 
shambles  and  all  to  find  the  right  place  for  it  by  peep  o'skirt  or     /  . 
pipe  a  skirl  when  the  hundt  called  a  halt  on  the  chivvychace  of     '  ,  ,  ,  / 
^■^1    the  ground  sloper  at  that  ligtning  lovemaker's  thender  apeal  till, 

between  wandering  weather  and  stable  wind,  vastelend  hosteil-  B 
end,  neuziel  and  oltrigger  some,  Bullyclubber  burgherly  shut 
the  rush  in  general.  ' 

Let  us  propel  us  for  the  frey  of  the  fray!  Us,  us,  beraddy !  /  t 

Ko  Niutirenis  hauru  leish!  A  lala!  Ko  Niutirenis  haururu  ^^^^ 
laleish!  Ala  lala!  The  Wullingthund  sturm  is  breaking.  The 
sound  of  maormaoring.  The  Wellingthund  sturm  waxes  fuer- 
cilier.  The  whackawhacks  of  the  sturm.  Katu  te  ihis  ihis !  Katu  ^  ^ 
te  wana  wana!  The  strength  of  the  rawshorn  generand  is  known 
throughout  the  world.  Let  us  say  if  we  may  what  a  weeny 
wukeleen  can  do. 

Au!  Au!  Aue!  Ha!  Heish!  A  lala! 

—  Paud  the  roosky,  weren't  they  all  of  them  then  each  in  his 
different  way  of  saying  calling  on  tha.^e_in  the  same  time 
hibernian  knights  underthaner  that  was  having,  half  for  the  laugh  ^kxi-A  % 

of  the  bliss  it  sint„barbaras  another  doesend  end  once  tale  of  a        '  ^  " 
tublin  wished  on  to  him  with  its  olives  ocolombs  and  its  hills 
owns  ravings  and  Tutty  his  tour  in  his  Nowhare's  yarcht.  It  was 
before  when  Aimee  stood  for  Arthurduke  for  the  figger  in  pro- 
fane and  fell  from  grace  so  madlley  for  fill  the  flatter  fellows. 
(They  were  saying).  And  it  was  the  lang  in  die  shirt  in  the  green 
of  the  wood,  where  obelisk  rises  when  odalisks  fall,  major  threft  \^^^ 
on  the  make  and  jollyjacques  spindthrift  on  the  merry  (O  Mr 
Mathurin,  they  were  calling,  what  a  topheavy  hat  you're  in!  And  '^^^/^^f 
there  aramny  maeud,  then  they  were  saying,  these  so  piou- 


335 


pious!).  And  it  was  cyclums  cyclorums  after  he  made  design  on 
the  corse  and  he  want  to  mess  on  him  (enterellbo  add  all  taller 
Danis),  back,  seater  and  sides,  and  he  applied  (I'm  amazingly 
sorracer!)  the  wholed  bould  shoulderedboy's  width  for  fullness, 
measures  for  messieurs,  messer's  massed,  (they  were  saycalling 
again  and  agone  and  all  over  agun,  the  louthly  meathers,  the 
loudly  meaders,  the  lously  measlers,  six  to  one,  bar  ones). 
And  they  pled  him  beheighten  the  firing.  Dope. 
/^iiJfi^  Maltpmeetim,  alltomatetam,  when  a  tale  tarries  shome  shunter 

shove  on.  Fore  auld  they  wauld  to  pree. 
Pray. 

Of  this  Mr  A  (tillalaric)  and  these  wasch  woman  (dapple- 
hued),  fhronehflord  and  feeofeeds,  who  had  insue  keen  and  able 
and  a  spindlesong  aside,  nothing  more  is  told  until  now,  his 
awebrume  hour,  her  sere  Sahara  of  sad  oakleaves.  And  then.  Be 
old.  The  next  thing  is.  We  are  once  amore  as  babes  awondering 
in  a  wold  made  fresh  where  with  the  hen  in  the  storyaboot  we 
start  from  scratch. 

So  the  truce,  the  old  truce  and  nattonbuff  the  truce,  boys. 
Drouth  is  stronger  than  faction.  Slant.  Shinshin.  Shinshin. 

—  It  was  of  The  Grant,  old  gartener,  qua  golden  meddlist, 
Publius  Manlius,  fuderal  private,  (his  place  is  his  poster,  sure,  they 
said,  and  we're  going  to  mark  it,  sore,  they  said,  with  a  carbon 
caustick  manner)  bequother  the  liberaloider  at  his  petty  corpore- 
lezzo  that  hung  caughtnapping  from  his  baited  breath,  it  was  of 
him,  my  wife  and  I  thinks,  to  feel  to  every  of  the  younging  fruits, 
tenderosed  like  an  atalantic's  breastswells  or,  on  a  second  wreath- 
ing, a  bright  tauth  bight  shimmeryshaking  for  the  welt  of  his 
plow.  And  where  the  peckadillies  at  his  wristsends  meetings  be 
loving  so  lightly  dovessoild  the  candidacy,  me  wipin  eye  sinks, 
of  his  softboiled  bosom  should  be  apparient  even  to  our  illicterate 
of  nullatinenties. 

All  to  which  not  a  lot  snapped  The  Nolan  of  the  Calabashes 
at  his  whilom  eweheart  photognomist  who  by  this  sum  taken 
was  as  much  incensed  by  Saint  Bruno  as  that  what  he  had  con- 
summed  was  his  own  panegoric,  and  wot  a  lout  about  it  if  it  was 

336 


only  a  pippappofF  pigeon  shoot  that  gracesold  getrunner,  the 
man  of  centuries,  was  bowled  out  by  judge,  jury  and  umpire  at 
batman's  biff  like  a  witchbefooled  legate.  Dupe. 

His  almonence  being  alaterelly  in  dispensation  with  his  three 
oldher  patrons'  aid,  providencer's  divine  cow  to  milkfeeding 
mleckman,  bonafacies  to  solafides,  what  matter  what  all  his 
freudzay  or  who  holds  his  hat  to  harm  him,  let  hutch  just  keep 
on  under  at  being  a  vanished  consinent  and  let  annapal  livibel 
prettily  prattle  a  lude  all  her  own.  And  be  that  semeliminal 
salmon  solemonly  angled,  ingate  and  outgate.  A  truce  to  lovecalls, 
dulled  in  warclothes,  maleybags,  things  and  bleakhusen.  Leave 
the  letter  that  never  begins  to  go  find  the  latter  that  ever  comes 
to  end,  written  in  smoke  and  blurred  by  mist  and  signed  of 
solitude,  sealed  at  night. 

Simply.  As  says  the  mug  in  the  middle,  nay  brian  nay  noel, 
ney  billy  ney  boney.  Imagine  twee  cweamy  wosen.  Suppwose 
you  get  a  beautiful  thought  and  cull  them  sylvias  sub  silence. 
Then  inmaggin  a  stotterer.  Suppoutre  him  to  been  one  bigger- 
master  Omnibil.  Then  lustily  (tutu  the  font  and  tritt  on  the  boks- 
woods  like  gay  feeters's  dance)  immengine  up  to  three  longly 
lurking  lobstarts.  Fair  instents  the  Will  Woolsley  Wellaslayers. 
Pet  her,  pink  him,  play  pranks  with  them.  She  will  nod  ampro- 
perly  smile.  He  may  seem  to  appraisiate  it.  They  are  as  piractical 
jukersmen  sure  to  paltipsypote.  Feel  the  wollies  drippeling  out 
of  your  fingathumbs.  Says  to  youssilves  (floweers  have  ears, 
heahear!)  solowly:  So  these  ease  Budlim!  How  do,  dainty  dau- 
limbs.^  So  peached  to  pick  on  you  in  this  way,  prue  and  simple, 
pritt  and  spry!  Heyday  too,  Malster  Faunagon,  and  hopes  your 
hahititahiti  licks  the  mankey  nuts!  And  oodlum  hoodlum  dood- 
lum  to  yes,  Donn,  Teague  and  Hurleg,  who  the  bullocks  brought 
you  here  and  how  the  hillocks  are  ye.'* 

We  want  Bud.  We  want  Bud  Budderly.  We  want  Bud  Budderly 
boddily.  There  he  is  in  his  Borrisalooner.  The  man  that  shunned 
the  rucks  on  Gereland.  The  man  thut  won  the  bettUe  of  the 
bawll.  Order,  order,  order,  order!  And  tough.  We  call  on  Tan- 
cred  Artaxerxes  Flavin  to  compeer  with  Barnabas  Ulick  Dunne. 

337 
