the  parco!  I  can  see  that,  I  see  you  are.  How  does  it  tummel? 
Listen  now.  Are  you  listening?  Yes,  yes !  Idneed  I  am !  Tarn  your 
ore  ouse !  Essonne  inne ! 

By  earth  and  the  cloudy  hut  I  badly  want  a  brandnew  bankside^ 
bedamp  and  I  do^  and  a  plumper  at  that! 

For  the  putty  affair  I  have  is  wore  out^  so  it  isy  sittings  y aping  and 
waiting  for  my  old  Dane  hodder  dodderer^  my  life  in  death  companion^ 
my  frugal  key  of  our  larder,  my  much-altered  cameVs  hump,  my 
jointspoiler ,  my  maymoons  honey,  my  fool  to  the  last  Decemberer, 
to  wake  himself  out  of  his  winter's  do^e  and  bore  me  down  like  he 
used  to. 

Is  there  irwell  a  lord  of  the  manor  or  a  knight  of  the  shire  at  strike^ 
I  wonder,  that'd  dip  me  a  dace  or  two  in  cash  for  washing  and 
darning  his  worshipful  socks  for  him  now  we're  run  out  of  horse- 
brose  and  milk? 

Only  for  my  short  Brittas  bed  mades  as  snug  as  it  smells  it  s 
out  Vd  lep  and  off  with  me  to  the  slobs  della  Tolka  or  the  plage  au 
Clontarf  to  feale  the  gay  aire  of  my  salt  troublin  bay  and  the  race 
of  the  saywint  up  me  ambushure. 

Onon!  Onon!  tell  me  more.  Tell  me  every  tiny  teign.  I  want 
to  know  every  single  ingul.  Down  to  what  made  the  potters  fly 
into  jagsthole.  And  why  were  the  vesles  vet.  That  homa  fever's 
winning  me  wome.  If  a  mahun  of  the  horse  but  hard  me !  We'd 
be  bundukiboi  meet  askarigal.  Well,  now  comes  the  hazel- 
hatchery  part.  After  Clondalkin  the  Kings's  Inns.  We'll  soon  be 
there  with  the  freshet.  How  many  aleveens  had  she  in  tool.'^  I  can't 
rightly  rede  you  that.  Close  only  knows.  Some  say  she  had  three 
figures  to  fill  and  confined  herself  to  a  hundred  eleven,  wan  by- 
wan  by  wan,  making  meanacuminamoyas.  Olaph  lamm  et,  all  that 
pack.'^  We  won't  have  room  in  the  kirkeyaard.  She  can't  remember 
half  of  the  cradlenames  she  smacked  on  them  by  the  grace  of  her 
boxing  bishop's  infallible  slipper,  the  cane  for  Kund  and  abbles  for 
Eyolf  and  ayther  nayther  for  Yakov  Yea.  A  hundred  and  how? 
They  did  well  to  rechristien  her  Pluhurabelle.  O  loreley!  What  a 
loddon  lodes!  Heigh  ho!  But  it's  quite  on  the  cards  she'll  shed 

20I 


more  and  merrier,  twills  and  trills,  sparefours  and  spoilfives,  nord- 
sihkes  and  sudsevers  and  ayes  and  neins  to  a  litter.  Grandfarthring 
nap  and  Messamisery  and  the  knave  of  all  knaves  and  the  joker. 
Heehaw!  She  must  have  been  a  gadabount  in  her  day,  so  she 
must,  more  than  most.  Shoal  she  was,  gidgad.  She  had  a  flewmen 
of  her  owen.  Then  a  toss  nare  scared  that  lass,  so  aimai  moe, 
that's  agapo!  Tell  me,  tell  me,  how  cam  she  camlin  through  all 
her  fellows,  the  neckar  she  was,  the  diveline.'^  Casting  her  perils 
before  our  swains  from  Fonte-in-Monte  to  Tidingtown  and 
from  Tidingtown  tilhavet.  Linking  one  and  knocking  the  next, 
tap  ting  a  flank  and  tipting  a  jutty  and  palling  in  and  pietaring 
out  and  clyding  by  on  her  eastway.  Waiwhou  was  the  first  thur- 
ever  burst.'*  Someone  he  was,  whuebra  they  were,  in  a  tactic  attack 
or  in  single  combat.  Tinker,  tilar,  souldrer,  salor.  Pieman  Peace 
or  Polistaman.  That's  the  thing  Pm  elwys  on  edge  to  esk.  Push 
up  and  push  vardar  and  come  to  uphill  headquarters!  Was  it 
waterlows  year,  after  Grattan  or  Flood,  or  when  maids  were  in 
Arc  or  when  three  stood  hosting.'^  Fidaris  will  find  where  the 
Doubt  arises  like  Nieman  from  Nirgends  found  the  Nihil.  Worry 
you  sighin  fob,  Albern,  O  Anser.'*  Untie  the  gemman's  fistiknots, 
Qvic  and  Nuancee!  She  can't  put  her  hand  on  him  for  the  mo- 
ment. Tez  thelon  langlo,  walking  weary!  Such  a  loon  waybash- 
wards  to  row!  She  sid  herself  she  hardly  knows  whuon  the  annals 
her  graveller  was,  a  dynast  of  Leinster,  a  wolf  of  the  sea,  or  what 
he  did  or  how  blyth  she  played  or  how,  when,  why,  where  and 
who  offon  he  jumpnad  her  and  how  it  was  gave  her  away.  She 
was  just  a  young  thin  pale  soft  shy  slim  slip  of  a  thing  then, 
sauntering,  by  silvamoonlake  and  he  was  a  heavy  trudging 
lurching  lieabroad  of  a  Curraghman,  making  his  hay  for  whose 
sun  to  shine  on,  as  tough  as  the  oaktrees  (peats  be  with  them!) 
used  to  rustle  that  time  down  by  the  dykes  of  killing  Kildare, 
for  forstfellfoss  with  a  plash  across  her.  She  thought  she's  sankh 
neathe  the  ground  with  nymphant  shame  when  he  gave  her  the 
tigris  eye !  O  happy  fault !  Me  wish  it  was  he !  You're  wrong  there, 
corribly  wrong!  Tisn't  only  tonight  you're  anacheronistic !  It 
was  ages  behind  that  when  nullahs  were  nowhere,  in  county 

202 


Wickenlow,  garden  of  Erin,  before  she  ever  dreamt  she'd  lave 
Kilbride  and  go  foaming  under  Horsepass  bridge,  with  the  great 
southerwestern  windstorming  her  traces  and  the  midland's  grain- 
waster  asarch  for  her  track,  to  wend  her  ways  byandby,  robecca 
or  worse,  to  spin  and  to  grind,  to  sv/ab  and  to  thrash,  for  all  her 
golden  lifey  in  the  barleyfields  and  pennylotts  of  Humphrey's 
fordofhurdlestown  and  lie  with  a  landleaper,  wellingtonorseher. 
Alesse,  the  lagos  of  girly  days!  For  the  dove  of  the  dunas!  Was- 
ut?  Izod?  Are  you  sarthin  suir?  Not  where  the  Finn  fits  into  the 
Mourne,  not  where  the  Nore  takes  lieve  of  Blcem,  not  where  the 
Braye  divarts  the  Farer,  not  where  the  Moy  changez  her  minds 
twixt  CuUin  and  Conn  tween  Cunn  and  Collin?  Or  where  Neptune 
sculled  and  Tritonville  rowed  and  leandros  three  bumped  heroines 
two?  Neya,  narev,  nen,  nonni,  nos!  Then  whereabouts  in  Ow  and 
Ovoca?  Was  it  yst  with  wyst  or  Lucan  Yokan  or  where  the  hand 
of  man  has  never  set  foot?  Dell  me  where,  the  fairy  ferse  time!  I 
will  if  you  listen.  You  know  the  dinkel  dale  of  Luggelaw?  Well, 
there  once  dwelt  a  local  heremite,  Michael  Arklow  was  his  river- 
end  name,  (with  many  a  sigh  I  aspersed  his  lavabibs!)  and  one 
venersderg  in  junojuly,  oso  sweet  and  so  cool  and  so  limber  she 
looked,  Nance  the  Nixie,  Nanon  L'Escaut,  in  the  silence,  of  the  sy- 
comores,  all  listening,  the  kindling  curves  you  simply  can't  stop 
feeling,  he  plunged  both  of  his  newly  anointed  hands,  the  core  of 
his  cushlas,  in  her  singimari  saffron  strumans  of  hair,  parting  them 
and  soothing  her  and  mingling  it,  that  was  deepdark  and  ample 
like  this  red  bog  at  sundown.  By  that  Vale  Vowclose's  lucydlac, 
the  reignbeau's  heavenarches  arronged  orranged  her.  Afroth- 
dizzying  galbs,  her  enamelled  eyes  indergoading  him  on  to  the 
vierge  violetian.  Wish  a  wish !  Why  a  why?  Mavro !  Letty  Lerck's 
lafing  light  throw  those  laurals  now  on  her  daphdaph  teasesong 
petrock.  Maass!  But  the  majik  wavus  has  elfun  anon  meshes. 
And  Simba  the  Slayer  of  his  Oga  is  slewd.  He  cuddle  not  help 
himself,  thurso  that  hot  on  him,  he  had  to  forget  the  monk  in 
the  man  so,  rubbing  her  up  and  smoothing  her  down,  he  baised 
his  lippes  in  smiling  mood,  kiss  akiss  after  kisokushk  (as  he 
warned  her  niver  to,  niver  to,  nevar)  on  Anna-na-Poghue's  of 

203 


the  freckled  forehead.  While  you'd  parse  secheressa  she  hielt  her 
souff*.  But  she  ruz  two  feet  hire  in  her  aisne  aestumation.  And 
steppes  on  stilts  ever  since.  That  was  kissuahealing  with  bantur 
for  balm!  O,  wasn't  he  the  bold  priest?  And  wasn't  she  the 
naughty  Livvy?  Nautic  Naama's  now  her  navn.  Two  lads  in 
scoutsch  breeches  went  through  her  before  that,  Barefoot  Bum 
and  Wallowme  Wade,  Lugnaquillia's  noblesse  pickts,  before  she 
had  a  hint  of  a  hair  at  her  fanny  to  hide  or  a  bossom  to  tempt  a 
birch  canoedler  not  to  mention  a  bulgic  porterhouse  barge.  And 
ere  that  again,  leada,  laida,  all  unraidy,  too  faint  to  buoy  the 
fairiest  rider,  too  frail  to  flirt  with  a  cygnet's  plume,  she  was  licked 
by  a  hound,  Chirripa-Chirruta,  while  poing  her  pee,  pure  and 
simple,  on  the  spur  of  the  hill  in  old  Kippure,  in  birdsong  and 
shearingtime,  but  first  of  all,  worst  of  all,  the  wiggly  livvly,  she 
sideslipped  out  by  a  gap  in  the  Devil's  glen  while  Sally  her  nurse 
was  sound  asleep  in  a  sloot  and,  feefee  fiefie,  fell  over  a  spillway 
before  she  found  her  stride  and  lay  and  wriggled  in  all  the  stag- 
nant black  pools  of  rainy  under  a  fallow  coo  and  she  laughed 
innocefree  with  her  limbs  aloft  and  a  whole  drove  of  maiden 
hawthorns  blushing  and  looking  askance  upon  her. 

Drop  me  the  sound  of  the  findhorn's  name,  Mtu  or  Mti,  som- 
bogger  was  wisness.  And  drip  me  why  in  the  flenders  was  she 
frickled.  And  trickle  me  through  was  she  marcellewaved  or  was 
it  weirdly  a  wig  she  wore.  And  whitside  did  they  droop  their 
glows  in  their  florry,  aback  to  wist  or  affront  to  sea?  In  fear  to 
hear  the  dear  so  near  or  longing  loth  and  loathing  longing?  Are 
you  in  the  swim  or  are  you  out?  O  go  in,  go  on,  go  an !  I  mean 
about  what  you  know.  I  know  right  well  what  you  mean.  Rother ! 
You'd  like  the  coifs  and  guimpes,  snouty,  and  me  to  do  the 
greasy  jub  on  old  Veronica's  wipers.  What  am  I  rancing  now 
and  I'll  thank  you?  Is  it  a  pinny  or  is  it  a  surplice?  Arran,  where's 
your  nose?  And  where's  the  starch?  That's  not  the  vesdre  bene- 
diction smell.  I  can  tell  from  here  by  their  eau  de  Colo  and  the 
scent  of  her  oder  they're  Mrs  Magrath's.  And  you  ought  to  have 
aird  them.  They've  moist  come  off  her.  Creases  in  silk  they 
are,  not  crampton  lawn.  Baptiste  me,  father,  for  she  has  sinned  I 

204 


i 

L 


Through  her  catchment  ring  she  freed  them  easy,  with  her  hips* 
hurrahs  for  her  knees'dontelleries.  The  only  parr  with  frills  in 
old  the  plain.  So  they  are,  I  declare!  Welland  well!  If  tomorrow 
keeps  fine  who'll  come  tripping  to  sightsee?  How'll?  Ask  me 
next  what  I  haven't  got!  The  Belvedarean  exhibitioners.  In  their 
cruisery  caps  and  oarsclub  colours.  What  hoo,  they  band!  And 
what  hoa,  they  buck!  And  here  is  her  nubilee  letters  too.  Ellis 
on  quay  in  scarlet  thread.  Linked  for  the  world  on  a  flush- 
caloured  field.  Annan  exe  after  to  show  they're  not  Laura  Ke- 
own's.  O,  may  the  diabolo  twisk  your  seifety  pin!  You  child  of 
Mammon,  Kinsella's  Lilith !  Now  who  has  been  tearing  the  leg 
of  her  drawars  on  her.^  Which  leg  is  it.'^  The  one  with  the  bells 
on  it.  Rinse  them  out  and  aston  along  with  you!  Where  did  I 
stop.'^  Never  stop!  Continuarration !  You're  not  there  yet.  I 
amstel  waiting.  Garonne,  garonne! 

Well,  after  it  was  put  in  the  Mericy  Cordial  Mendicants'  Sitter- 
dag-Zindeh-Munaday  Wakeschrift  (for  once  they  sullied  their 
white  kidloves,  chewing  cuds  after  their  dinners  of  cheeckin  and 
beggin,  with  their  show  us  it  here  and  their  mind  out  of  that  and 
their  when  you're  quite  finished  with  the  reading  matarial),  even 
the  snee  that  snowdon  his  hoaring  hair  had  a  skunner  against 
him.  Thaw,  thaw,  sava,  savuto!  Score  Her  Chuff  Exsquire! 
Everywhere  erriff  you  went  and  every  bung  you  arver  dropped 
into,  in  cit  or  suburb  or  in  addled  areas,  the  Rose  and  Bottle  or 
Phoenix  Tavern  or  Power's  Inn  or  Jude's  Hotel  or  wherever  you 
scoured  the  countryside  from  Nannywater  to  Vartryville  or  from 
Porta  Lateen  to  the  lootin  quarter  you  found  his  ikom  etsched 
tipside  down  or  the  cornerboys  cammocking  his  guy  and  Morris 
the  Man,  with  the  role  of  a  royss  in  his  turgos  the  turrible,  (Evro- 
peahahn  cheic  house,  unskimmed  sooit  and  yahoort,  hamman 
now  cheekmee,  Ahdahm  this  way  make,  Fatima,  half  turn!) 
reeling  and  railing  round  the  local  as  the  peihos  piped  und  uban- 
jees  twanged,  with  oddfellow's  triple  tiara  busby  rotundarinking 
round  his  scalp.  Like  Pate-by-the-Neva  or  Pete-over-Meer.  This 
is  the  Hausman  all  paven  and  stoned,  that  cribbed  the  Cabin  that 
never  was  owned  that  cocked  his  leg  and  hennad  his  Egg.  And 

205 


the  mauldrin  rabble  around  him  in  areopage,  fracassing  a  great 
bingkan  cagnan  with  their  timpan  crowders.  Mind  your  Grimm- 
father!  Think  of  your  Ma!  Hing  the  Hong  is  his  jove's  hang- 
nomen !  Lilt  a  bolero,  bulling  a  law !  She  swore  on  croststyx  nyne 
wyndabouts  she's  be  level  with  all  the  snags  of  them  yet.  Par  the 
Vulnerable  Virgin's  Mary  del  Dame!  So  she  said  to  herself  she'd 
frame  a  plan  to  fake  a  shine,  the  mischiefmaker,  the  like  of  it  you 
niever  heard.  What  plan.'*  Tell  me  quick  and  dongu  so  crould! 
What  the  meurther  did  she  mague?  Well,  she  bergened  a  zakbag, 
a  shammy  mailsack,  with  the  lend  of  a  loan  of  the  light  of  his 
lampion,  off  one  of  her  swapsons,  Shaun  the  Post,  and  then  she 
went  and  consulted  her  chapboucqs,  old  Mot  Moore,  Casey's 
Euclid  and  the  Fashion  Display  and  made  herself  tidal  to  join 
in  the  mascarete.  O  gig  goggle  of  gigguels.  I  can't  tell  you  how! 
It's  too  screaming  to  rizo,  rabbit  it  all !  Minneha,  minnehi  mina- 
aehe,  minneho!  O  but  you  must,  you  must  really!  Make  my  hear 
it  gurgle  gurgle,  like  the  farest  gargle  gargle  in  the  dusky  dirgle 
dargle!  By  the  holy  well  of  Mulhuddart  I  swear  I'd  pledge  my 
chanza  getting  to  heaven  through  Tirry  and  Killy's  mount  of 
impiety  to  hear  it  all,  aviary  word!  O,  leave  me  my  faculties, 
woman,  a  while !  If  you  don't  like  my  story  get  out  of  the  punt. 
Well,  have  it  your  own  way,  so.  Here,  sit  down  and  do  as  you're 
bid.  Take  my  stroke  and  bend  to  your  bow.  Forward  in  and  pull 
your  overthepoise!  Lisp  it  slaney  and  crisp  it  quiet.  Deel  me  long- 
some.  Tongue  your  time  now.  Breathe  thet  deep.  Thouat's  the 
fairway.  Hurry  slow  and  Scheldt  you  go.  Lynd  us  your  blessed 
ashes  here  till  I  scrub  the  canon's  underpants.  Flow  now.  Ower 
more.  And  pooleypooley. 

First  she  let  her  hair  fal  and  down  it  flussed  to  her  feet  its 
teviots  winding  coils.  Then,  mothernaked,  she  sampood  herself 
with  galawater  and  fraguant  pistania  mud,  wupper  and  lauar, 
from  crown  to  sole.  Next  she  greesed  the  groove  of  her  keel, 
warthes  and  wears  and  mole  and  itcher,  with  antifouling  butter- 
scatch  and  turfentide  and  serpenthyme  and  with  leafmould  she 
ushered  round  prunella  isles  and  eslats  dun,  quincecunct,  allover 
her  little  mary.  Peeld  gold  of  waxwork  her  jellybelly  and  her 

206 


I 


grains  of  incense  anguille  bronze.  And  after  that  she  wove  a  gar- 
land for  her  hair.  She  pleated  it.  She  plaited.it.  Of  meadowgrass 
and  riverflags,  the  bulrush  and  waterweed,  and  of  fallen  griefs  of 
weeping  willow.  Then  she  made  her  bracelets  and  her  anklets 
and  her  armlets  and  a  jetty  amulet  for  necklace  of  clicking  cobbles 
and  pattering  pebbles  and  rumbledown  rubble,  richmond  and 
rehr,  of  Irish  rhunerhinerstones  and  shellmarble  bangles.  That 
done,  a  dawk  of  smut  to  her  airy  ey,  Annushka  Lutetiavitch 
Pufflovah,  and  the  lellipos  cream  to  her  lippeleens  and  the  pick 
of  the  paintbox  for  her  pommettes,  from  strawbirry  reds  to 
extra  violates,  and  she  sendred  her  boudeloire  maids  to  His 
Affluence,  Ciliegia  Grande  and  Kirschie  Real,  the  two  chirsines, 
with  respecks  from  his  missus,  seepy  and  sewery,  and  a  request 
might  she  passe  of  him  for  a  minnikin.  A  call  to  pay  and  light  a 
taper,  in  Brie-on-Arrosa,  back  in  a  sprizzling.  The  cock  striking 
mine,  the  stalls  bridely  sign,  there's  Zambosy  waiting  for  Me! 
She  said  she  wouldn't  be  half  her  length  away.  Then,  then,  as 
soon  as  the  lump  his  back  was  turned,  with  her  mealiebag  slang 
over  her  shulder,  Anna  Livia,  oysterface,  forth  of  her  bassein 
came. 

Describe  her!  Hustle  along,  why  can't  you.'*  Spitz  on  the  iern 
while  it's  hot.  I  wouldn't  miss  her  for  irthing  on  nerthe.  Not  for 
the  lucre  of  lomba  strait.  Oceans  of  Gaud,  I  mosel  hear  that! 
Ogowe  presta!  Leste,  before  Julia  sees  her!  Ishekarry  and  washe- 
meskad,  the  carishy  caratimaney.'^  Whole  lady  fair.'^  Duodecimo- 
roon?  Bon  a  ventura?  Malagassy.^  What  had  she  on,  the  liddel  oud 
oddity.'^  How  much  did  she  scallop,  harness  and  weights.'^  Here 
she  is,  Amnisty  Ann !  Call  her  calamity  electrifies  man. 

No  electress  at  all  but  old  Moppa  Necessity,  angin  mother  of 
injons.  I'll  tell  you  a  test.  But  you  must  sit  still  Will  you  hold 
your  peace  and  listen  well  to  what  I  am  going  to  say  now.'^  It 
might  have  been  ten  or  twenty  to  one  of  the  night  of  AUclose  or 
the  nexth  of  April  when  the  flip  of  her  hoogly  igloo  flappered  and 
out  toetippit  a  bushman  woman,  the  dearest  little  moma  ever 
you  saw,  nodding  around  her,  all  smiles,  with  ems  of  embarras 
and  aues  to  awe,  between  two  ages,  a  judy queen,  not  up  to  your 

207 


elb.  Quick,  look  at  her  cute  and  saise  her  quirk  for  the  bicker  she 
lives  the  slicker  she  grows.  Save  us  and  tagus !  No  more?  Werra 
where  in  ourthe  did  you  ever  pick  a  Lambay  chop  as  big  as  a 
battering  ram?  Ay,  you're  right.  Fm  epte  to  forgetting.  Like 
Liviam  Liddle  did  Loveme  Long.  The  linth  of  my  hough,  I  say ! 
She  wore  a  ploughboy's  nailstudded  clogs,  a  pair  of  ploughfields 
in  themselves:  a  sugarloaf  hat  with  a  gaudyquiviry  peak  and  a 
band  of  gorse  for  an  arnoment  and  a  hundred  streamers  dancing 
off  it  and  a  guildered  pin  to  pierce  it:  owlglassy  bicycles  boggled 
her  eyes:  and  a  fishnetzeveil  for  the  sun  not  to  spoil  the  wrinklings 
of  her  hydeaspects:  potatorings  boucled  the  loose  laubes  of  her 
laudsnarers:  her  nude  cuba  stockings  were  salmospotspeckled:  she 
sported  a  galligo  shimmy  of  hazevaipar  tinto  that  never  was  fast 
till  it  ran  in  the  washing:  stout  stays,  the  rivals,  lined  her  length: 
her  bloodorange  bockknickers,  a  two  in  one  garment,  showed 
natural  nigger  boggers,  fancyfastened,  free  to  undo:  her  black- 
stripe  tan  Joseph  was  sequansewn  and  teddybearlined,  with  wavy 
rushgreen  epaulettes  and  a  leadown  here  and  there  of  royal 
swansruff:  a  brace  of  gaspers  stuck  in  her  hay  rope  garters:  her 
civvy  codroy  coat  with  alpheubett  buttons  was  boundaried  round 
with  a  twobar  tunnel  belt:  a  fourpenny  bit  in  each  pocketside 
weighed  her  safe  from  the  blowaway  windrush;  she  had  a  clothes- 
peg  tight  astride  on  her  joki's  nose  and  she  kep  on  grinding  a 
sommething  quaint  in  her  fiumy  mouth  and  the  rrreke  of  the 
fluve  of  the  tail  of  the  gawan  of  her  snuffdrab  siouler's  skirt 
trailed  ffiffty  odd  Irish  miles  behind  her  lungarhodes. 

Hellsbells,  Fm  sorry  I  missed  her!  Sweet  gumptyum  and  no- 
body fainted !  But  in  whelk  of  her  mouths?  Was  her  naze  alight? 
Everyone  that  saw  her  said  the  dowce  little  delia  looked  a  bit 
queer.  Lotsy  trotsy,  mind  the  poddle!  Missus,  be  good  and  don't 
fol  in  the  say!  Fenny  poor  hex  she  must  have  charred.  Kickhams 
a  frumpier  ever  you  saw!  Making  mush  mullet's  eyes  at  her  boys 
dobelon.  And  they  crowned  her  their  chariton  queen,  all  the 
maids.  Of  the  may?  You  don't  say!  Well  for  her  she  couldn't 
see  herself.  I  recknitz  wharfore  the  darling  murrayed  her  mirror. 
She  did?  Mersey  me!  There  was  a  koros  of  drouthdropping  sur- 

208 


L 


II 


facemen,  boomslanging  and  plugchewing,  fruiteyeing  and  flower- 
feeding,  in  contemplation  of  the  fluctuation  and  the  undificatidn 
of  her  filimentation,  lolling  and  leasing  on  North  Lazers'  Waal 
all  eelfare  week  by  the  Jukar  Yoick's  and  as  soon  as  they  saw  her 
meander  by  that  marritime  way  in  her  grasswinter's  weeds  and 
twigged  who  was  under  her  archdeaconess  bonnet,  Avondale's 
fish  and  Clarence's  poison,  sedges  an  to  aneber,  Wit-upon- 
Crutches  to  Master  Bates:  Between  our  two  southsates  and  the 
granite  they  re  warmings  or  her  face  has  been  lifted  or  Alp  has  doped! 

But  what  was  the  game  in  her  mixed  baggyrhatty?  Just  the 
tembo  in  her  tumbo  or  pilipili  from  her  pepperpot?  Saas  and 
taas  and  specis  bizaas.  And  where  in  thunder  did  she  plunder? 
Fore  the  battle  or  efter  the  ball?  I  want  to  get  it  frisk  from  the 
soorce.  I  aubette  my  bearb  it's  worth  while  poaching  on!  Shake 
it  up,  do,  do!  That's  a  good  old  son  of  a  ditch!  I  promise  Fll 
make  it  worth  your  while.  And  I  don't  mean  maybe.  Nor  yet 
with  a  goodfor.  Spey  me  pruth  and  I'll  tale  you  true. 

Well,  arundgirond  in  a  waveney  lyne  aringarouma  she  pattered 
and  swung  and  sidled,  dribbling  her  boulder  through  narrowa 
mosses,  the  diliskydrear  on  our  drier  side  and  the  vilde  vetchvine 
agin  us,  curara  here,  career o  there,  not  knowing  which  medway 
or  weser  to  strike  it,  edereider,  making  chattahoochee  all  to  her 
ain  chichiu,  like  Santa  Claus  at  the  cree  of  the  pale  and  puny, 
nistling  to  hear  for  their  tiny  hearties,  her  arms  encircling  Isola- 
bella,  then  running  with  reconciled  Romas  and  Reims,  on  like  a 
lech  to  be  ofl"  like  a  dart,  then  bathing  Dirty  Hans'  spatters  with 
spittle,  with  a  Christmas  box  apiece  for  aisch  and  iveryone  of  her 
childer,  the  birthday  gifts  they  dreamt  they  gabe  her,  the  spoiled 
she  fleetly  laid  at  our  door!  On  the  matt,  by  the  pourch  and  in- 
under  the  cellar.  The  rivulets  ran  aflod  to  see,  the  glashaboys,  the 
pollynooties.  Out  of  the  paunschaup  on  to  the  pyre.  And  they  all 
about  her,  juvenile  leads  and  ingenuinas,  from  the  slime  of  their 
slums  and  artesaned  wellings,  rickets  and  riots,  like  the  Smyly 
boys  at  their  vicereine's  levee.  Vivi  vienne,  little  Annchen!  Vielo 
Anna,  high  life!  Sing  us  a  sula,  O,  susuria!  Ausone  sidulcis! 
Hasn't  she  tambre!  Chipping  her  and  raising  a  bit  of  a  chir  or  a 

209 


jary  every  dive  she'd  neb  in  her  culdee  sacco  of  wabbash  she 
raabed  and  reach  out  her  maundy  meerschaundize,  poor  souvenir 
as  per  ricorder  and  all  for  sore  aringarung,  stinkers  and  heelers, 
laggards  and  primelads,  her  furzeborn  sons  and  dribblederry 
daughters,  a  thousand  and  one  of  them,  and  wickerpotluck  for 
each  of  them.  For  evil  and  ever.  And  kiks  the  buch.  A  tinker's 
bann  and  a  barrow  to  boil  his  billy  for  Gipsy  Lee;  a  cartridge  of 
cockaleekie  soup  for  Chummy  the  Guardsman;  for  sulky  Pen- 
der's acid  nephew  deltoid  drops,  curiously  strong;  a  cough  and 
a  rattle  and  wildrose  cheeks  for  poor  Piccolina  Petite  MacFarlane; 
a  jigsaw  puzzle  of  needles  and  pins  and  blankets  and  shins  between 
them  for  Isabel,  Jezebel  and  Llewelyn  Mmarriage;  a  brazen  nose 
and  pigiron  mittens  for  Johnny  Walker  Beg;  a  papar  flag  of  the 
saints  and  stripes  for  Kevineen  O'Dea;  a  puffpuff  for  Pudge  Craig 
and  a  nightmarching  hare  for  Techertim  Tombigby;  waterleg 
and  gumboots  each  for  Bully  Hayes  and  Hurricane  Hartigan; 
a  prodigal  heart  and  fatted  calves  for  Buck  Jones,  the  pride  of 
Clonliffe;  a  loaf  of  bread  and  a  father's  early  aim  for  Val  from 
Skibereen;  a  jauntingcar  for  Larry  Doolin,  the  Ballyclee  jackeen; 
a  seasick  trip  on  a  government  ship  for  Teague  O' Flanagan;  a 
louse  and  trap  for  Jerry  Coyle;  slushmincepies  for  Andy  Mac- 
kenzie; a  hairclip  and  clackdish  for  Penceless  Peter;  that  twelve 
sounds  look  for  G.  V.  Brooke;  a  drowned  doll,  to  face  down- 
wards for  modest  Sister  Anne  Mortimer;  altar  falls  for  Blanchisse's 
bed;  Wildairs'  breechettes  for  Magpeg  Woppington;  to  Sue  Dot 
a  big  eye;  to  Sam  Dash  a  false  step;  snakes  in  clover,  picked  and 
scotched,  and  a  vaticanned  viper  catcher's  visa  for  Patsy  Presbys; 
a  reiz  every  morning  for  Standfast  Dick  and  a  drop  every  minute 
for  Stumblestone  Davy;  scruboak  beads  for  beatified  Biddy;  two 
appletweed  stools  for  Eva  Mobbely;  for  Saara  Philpot  a  Jordan 
vale  tearorne;  a  pretty  box  of  Pettyfib's  Powder  for  Eileen  Aruna 
to  whiten  her  teeth  and  outflash  Helen  Arhone;  a  whippingtop 
for  Eddy  Lawless;  for  Kitty  Coleraine  of  Butterman's  Lane  a 
penny  wise  for  her  foolish  pitcher;  a  putty  shovel  for  Terry  the 
Puckaun;  an  apotamus  mask  for  Promoter  Dunne;  a  niester  egg 
with  a  twicedated  shell  and  a  dynamight  right  for  Pavl  the  Curate; 

210 


a  collera  morbous  for  Mann  in  the  Cloack;  a  starr  and  girton  for 
Draper  and  Deane;  for  Will-of-the-Wisp  and  Barny-the-Bark  two 
mangolds  noble  to  sweeden  their  bitters;  for  Oliver  Bound  a 
way  in  his  frey;  for  Seumas,  thought  little,  a  crown  he  feels  big; 
a  tibertine's  pile  with  a  Congoswood  cross  on  the  back  for 
Sunny  Twimjim;  a  praises  be  and  spare  me  days  for  Brian  the 
Bravo;  penteplenty  of  pity  with  lubilashings  of  lust  for  Olona 
Lena  Magdalena;  for  Camilla,  Dromilla,  Ludmilla,  Mamilla,  a 
bucket,  a  packet,  a  book  and  a  pillow;  for  Nancy  Shannon  a 
Tuami  brooch;  for  Dora  Riparia  Hopeandwater  a  cooling  douche 
and  a  warmingpan;  a  pair  of  Blarney  braggs  for  Wally  Meagher; 
a  hairpin  slatepencil  for  Elsie  Oram  to  scratch  her  toby,  doing 
her  best  with  her  volgar  fractions;  an  old  age  pension  for  Betty 
Bellezza;  a  bag  of  the  blues  for  Funny  Fitz;  a  Missa  pro  Messa  for 
Taff  de  Taff;  Jill,  the  spoon  of  a  girl,  for  Jack,  the  broth  of  a  boy; 
a  Rogerson  Crusoe's  Friday  fast  for  Caducus  Angelus  Rubicon- 
stein;  three  hundred  and  sixtysix  poplin  tyne  for  revery  warp  in 
the  weaver's  woof  for  Victor  Hugonot;  a  stiff  steaded  rake  and 
good  varians  muck  for  Kate  the  Cleaner;  a  hole  in  the  ballad  for 
Hosty;  two  dozen  of  cradles  for  J.F.X.P.  Coppinger;  tenpounten 
on  the  pop  for  the  daulphins  born  with  five  spoiled  squibs  for 
Infanta;  a  letter  to  last  a  lifetime  for  Maggi  beyond  by  the  ashpit; 
the  heftiest  frozenmeat  woman  from  Lusk  to  Livienbad  for  Felim 
the  Ferry;  spas  and  speranza  and  symposium's  syrup  for  decayed 
and  blind  and  gouty  Gough;  a  change  of  naves  and  joys  of  ills 
for  Armoricus  Tristram  Amoor  Saint  Lawrence;  a  guillotine 
shirt  for  Reuben  Redbreast  and  hempen  suspendeats  for  Bren- 
nan  on  the  Moor;  an  oakanknee  for  Conditor  Sawyer  and  mus- 
quodoboits  for  Great  Tropical  Scott;  a  C3  peduncle  for  Karma- 
lite  Kane;  a  sunless  map  of  the  month,  including  the  sword  and 
stamps,  for  Shemus  O'Shaun  the  Post;  a  jackal  with  hide  for 
Browne  but  Nolan;  a  stonecold  shoulder  for  Donn  Joe  Vance; 
all  lock  and  no  stable  for  Honorbright  Merreytrickx;  a  big  drum 
for  Billy  Dunboyne;  a  guilty  goldeny  bellows,  below  me  blow 
me,  for  Ida  Ida  and  a  hushaby  rocker,  Elletrouvetout,  for  Who-is- 
silvier  —  "Where-is-he?;  whatever  you  like  to  swilly  to  swash, 


Yuinness  or  Yennessy,  Laagen  or  Niger,  for  Festus  King  and 
Roaring  Peter  and  Frisky  Shorty  and  Treacle  Tom  and  O.  B. 
Behan  and  Sully  the  Thug  and  Master  Magrath  and  Peter  Cloran 
and  O'Delawarr  Rossa  and  Nerone  MacPacem  and  whoever  you 
chance  to  meet  knocking  around;  and  a  pig's  bladder  balloon  for 
Selina  Susquehanna  Stakelum.  But  what  did  she  give  to  Pruda 
Ward  and  Katty  Kanel  and  Peggy  Quilty  and  Briery  Brosna  and 
Teasy  Kieran  and  Ena  Lappin  and  Muriel  Maassy  and  Zusan  Camac 
and  Melissa  Bradogue  and  Flora  Ferns  and  Fauna  Fox-Good- 
man and  Grettna  Greaney  and  Penelope  Inglesante  and  Lezba 
Licking  like  Leytha  Liane  and  Roxana  Rohan  with  Simpatica 
Sohan  and  Una  Bina  Laterza  and  Trina  La  Mesme  and  Philomena 
O'Farrell  and  Irmak  Elly  and  Josephine  Foyle  and  Snakeshead 
Lily  and  Fountainoy  Laura  and  Marie  Xavier  Agnes  Daisy 
Frances  de  Sales  Macleay?  She  gave  them  ilcka  madre's  daughter 
a  moonflower  and  a  bloodvein:  but  the  grapes  that  ripe  before 
reason  to  them  that  devide  the  vinedress.  So  on  Izzy,  her  shame- 
maid,  love  shone  befond  her  tears  as  from  Shem,  her  penmight, 
life  past  befoul  his  prime. 

My  colonial,  wardha  bagful!  A  bakereen's  dusind  with  tithe 
tillies  to  boot.  That's  what  you  may  call  a  tale  of  a  tub !  And  Hi- 
bernonian  market!  All  that  and  more  under  one  crinoline  enve- 
lope if  you  dare  to  break  the  porkbarrel  seal.  No  wonder  they'd 
run  from  her  pison  plague.  Throw  us  your  hudson  soap  for  the 
honour  of  Clane!  The  wee  taste  the  water  left.  I'll  raft  it  back, 
first  thing  in  the  marne.  Merced  mulde!  Ay,  and  don't  forget  the 
reckitts  I  lohaned  you.  You've  all  the  swirls  your  side  of  the  cur- 
rent. Well,  am  I  to  blame  for  that  if  I  have?  Who  said  you're  to 
blame  for  that  if  you  have.'^  You're  a  bit  on  the  sharp  side.  I'm  on 
the  wide.  Only  snuffers'  cornets  drifts  my  way  that  the  cracka 
dvine  chucks  out  of  his  cassock,  with  her  estheryear's  marsh 
narcissus  to  make  him  recant  his  vanitty  fair.  Foul  strips  of  his 
Chinook's  bible  I  do  be  reading,  dodwell  disgustered  but  chickled 
with  chuckles  at  the  tittles  is  drawn  on  the  tattlepage.  Senior  ga 
dito:  Faciasi  Omo!  E  omo  fu  fd.  Ho!  Ho!  Senior  ga  dito:  Faciasi 
Hidamol  Hidamo  se  ga  facessa.  Ha !  Ha !  And  Die  Windermere 

212 


Dichter  and  Lefanu  (Sheridan's)  old  House  hy  the  Coachyard  and 
Mill  (J.)  On  Woman  with  Ditto  on  the  Floss.  Ja,  a  swamp  for  Alt- 
muehler  and  a  stone  for  his  flossies !  I  know  how  racy  they  move 
his  wheel.  My  hands  are  blawcauld  between  isker  and  suda  like 
that  piece  of  pattern  chayney  there,  lying  below.  Or  where  is  it? 
Lying  beside  the  sedge  I  saw  it.  Hoangho,  my  sorrow,  I've  lost 
it!  Aimihi!  With  that  turbary  water  who  could  see?  So  near  and 
yet  so  far!  But  O,  gihon!  I  lovat  a  gabber.  I  could  listen  to  maure 
and  moravar  again.  Regn  onder  river.  Flies  do  your  float.  Thick 


is  the  life  for  mere. 

Well,  you  know  or  don't  you  kennet  or  haven't  I  told  you 


every  telling  has  a  taling  and  that's  the  he  and  the  she  of  it.  Look,  i 
look,  the  dusk  is  growing!  My  branches  lofty  are  taking  root. 
And  my  cold  cher's  gone  ashley.  Fieluhr?  Filou!  What  age  is  at? 
It  saon  is  late.  'Tis  endless  now  senne  eye  or  erewone  last  saw 
Waterhouse's  clogh.  They  took  it  asunder,  I  hurd  thum  sigh.  ^ 
When  will  they  reassemble  it?  O,  my  back,  my  back,  my  bach!  i        '  ^  l. 
I'd  want  to  go  to  Aches-les-Pains.  Pingpong!  There's  the  Belle  \  ^ 
for  Sexaloitez!  And  Concepta  de  Send-us-pray!  Pang!  Wring  out  t'^^^  ^7^-0  ^ 
the  clothes!  Wring  in  the  dew!  Godavari,  vert  the  showers!  And 
grant  thaya  grace!  Aman.  Will  we  spread  them  here  now?  Ay, 
we  will.  Flip!  Spread  on  your  bank  and  I'll  spread  mine  on  mine. 
Flep !  It's  what  I'm  doing.  Spread !  It's  churning  chill.  Der  went  is 
rising.  I'll  lay  a  few  stones  on  the  hostel  sheets.  A  man  and  his  bride 
embraced  between  them.  Else  I'd  have  sprinkled  and  folded  them 
only.  And  I'll  tie  my  butcher's  apron  here.  It's  suety  yet.  The 
strollers  will  pass  it  by.  Six  shifts,  ten  kerchiefs,  nine  to  hold  toj  ^ 
the  fire  and  this  for  the  code,  the  convent  napkins,  twelve,  one 
baby's  shawl.  Good  mother  Jossiph  knows,  she  said.  Whose 
head?  Mutter  snores?  Deataceas!  Wharnow  are  alle  her  childer, 
say?  In  kingdome  gone  or  power  to  come  or  gloria  be  to  them 
farther?  Allalivial,  allalluvial!  Some  here,  more  no  more,  more 
again  lost  alia  stranger.  I've  heard  tell  that  same  brooch  of  the 
Shannons  was  married  into  a  family  in  Spain.  And  all  the  Dun- 
ders  de  Dunnes  in  Markland's  Vineland  beyond  Brendan's  herring 
pool  takes  number  nine  in  yangsee's  hats.  And  one  of  Biddy's 

213 


beads  went  bobbing  till  she  rounded  up  lost  histereve  with  a 
marigold  and  a  cobbler's  candle  in  a  side  strain  of  a  main  drain 
of  a  manzinahurries  off  Bachelor's  Walk.  But  all  that's  left  to  the 
last  of  the  Meaghers  in  the  loup  of  the  years  prefixed  and  between 
is  one  kneebuckle  and  two  hooks  in  the  front.  Do  you  tell  me 
that  now?  I  do  in  troth.  Orara  por  Orbe  and  poor  Las  Animas! 
Ussa,  Ulla,  we're  umbas  all!  Mezha,  didn't  you  hear  it  a  deluge  of 
times,  ufer  and  ufer,  respund  to  spond.^  You  deed,  you  deed!  I 
need,  I  need!  It's  that  irrawaddyng  I've  stoke  in  my  aars.  It  all 
but  husheth  the  lethest  zswound.  Oronoko!  What's  your  trouble? 
Is  that  the  great  Finnleader  himself  in  his  joakimono  on  his  statue 
riding  the  high  horse  there  forehengist?  Father  of  Otters,  it  is 
himself!  Yonne  there!  Isset  that?  On  Fallareen  Common?  You're 
thinking  of  Astley's  Amphitheayter  where  the  bobby  restrained 
you  making  sugarstuck  pouts  to  the  ghostwhite  horse  of  the 
Peppers.  Throw  the  cobwebs  from  your  eyes,  woman,  and  spread 
your  washing  proper!  It's  well  I  know  your  sort  of  slop.  Flap! 
Ireland  sober  is  Ireland  stiff.  Lord  help  you,  Maria,  full  of  grease, 
the  load  is  with  me!  Your  prayers.  I  sonht  zo!  Madammangut! 
Were  you  lifting  your  elbow,  tell  us,  glazy  cheeks,  in  Conway's 
Carrigacurra  canteen?  Was  I  what,  hobbledyhips?  Flop!  Your 
rere  gait's  creakorheuman  bitts  your  butts  disagrees.  Amn't  I 
up  since  the  damp  dawn,  marthared  mary  allacook,  with  Corri- 
gan's  pulse  and  varicoarse  veins',  my  pramaxle  smashed,  Alice 
Jane  in  decline  and  my  oneeyed  mongrel  twice  run  over,  soaking 
and  bleaching  boiler  rags,  and  sweating  cold,  a  widow  like  me, 
for  to  deck  my  tennis  champion  son,  the  laundryman  with  the 
lavandier  flannels?  You  won  your  limpopo  limp  fron  the  husky 
hussars  when  Collars  and  Cuffs  was  heir  to  the  town  and  your 
slur  gave  the  stink  to  Carlow.  Holy  Scamander,  I  sar  it  again! 
Near  the  golden  falls.  Icis  on  us!  Seints  of  light!  Zezere!  Subdue 
your  noise,  you  hamble  creature!  What  is  it  but  a  blackburry 
growth  or  the  dwyergray  ass  them  four  old  codgers  owns.  Are 
you  meanam  Tarpey  and  Lyons  and  Gregory?  I  meyne  now, 
thank  all,  the  four  of  them,  and  the  roar  of  them,  that  draves 
that  stray  in  the  mist  and  old  Johnny  MacDougal  along  with 

214 


'i 


r 


them.  Is  that  the  Poolbeg  flasher  beyant,  pharphar,  or  a  fireboat 
coasting  nyar  the  Kishtna  or  a  glow  I  behold  within  a  hedge  or 
my  Garry  come  back  from  the  Indes?  Wait  till  the  honeying  of 
the  lune,  love!  Die  eve,  little  eve,  die!  We  see  that  wonder  in 
