and,  but  a  little  later:  Pluck  me  whilst  I  blush!  Well  may  they 
wilt,  marry,  and  profusedly  blush,  be  troth!  For  that  saying  is  as 
old  as  the  howitts.  Lave  a  whale  a  while  in  a  whillbarrow  (isn't 
it  the  truath  Fm  tallin  ye?)  to  have  fins  and  flippers  that  shimmy 
and  shake.  Tim  Timmycan  timped  hir,  tampting  Tam.  Fleppety! 
Flippety!  Fleapow! 

Hop! 

In  the  name  of  Anem  this  carl  on  the  kopje  in  pelted  thongs  a 
parth  a  lone  who  the  joebiggar  be  he?  Forshapen  his  pigmaid 
hoagshead,  shroonk  his  plodsfoot.  He  hath  locktoes,  this  short- 
shins,  and,  Obeold  that's  pectoral,  his  mammamuscles  most 
mousterious.  It  is  slaking  nuncheon  out  of  some  thing's  brain 
pan.  Me  seemeth  a  dragon  man.  He  is  almonthst  on  the  kiep 
fief  by  here,  is  Comestipple  Sacksoun,  be  it  junipery  or  febrew- 
ery,  marracks  or  alebrill  or  the  ramping  riots  of  pouriose  and 

15 


froriose.  What  a  quhare  soort  of  a  mahan.  It  is  evident  the  mich- 
indaddy.  Lets  we  overstep  his  fire  defences  and  these  kraals  of 
slitsucked  marrogbones.  (Cave!)  He  can  prapsposterus  the  pil- 
lory way  to  Hirculos  pillar.  Come  on,  fool  porterfull,  hosiered 
women  blown  monk  sewer?  Scuse  us,  chorley  guy!  You  toller- 
day  donsk?  N.  You  tolkatiff  scowegian?  Nn.  You  spigotty  an- 
glease?  Nnn.  You  phonio  saxo?  Nnnn.  Clear  all  so!  'Tis  a  Jute. 
Let  us  swop  hats  and  excheck  a  few  strong  verbs  weak  oach  ea- 
ther  yapyazzard  abast  the  blooty  creeks. 

Jute.  —  Yutah! 

Mutt.  —  Mukk's  pleasurad. 

Jute.  —  Are  you  jeff? 

Mutt.  —  Somehards. 

Jute.  —  But  you  are  not  jefFmute.^ 

Mutt.  —  Noho.  Only  an  utterer. 

Jute.  —  Whoa.'^  Whoat  is  the  mutter  with  you.'^ 

Mutt.  —  I  became  a  stun  a  stummer. 

Jute.  —  What  a  hauhauhauhaudibble  thing,  to  be  cause!  How, 
Mutt.^ 

Mutt.  —  Aput  the  buttle,  surd. 
Jute.  —  Whose  poddle.'^  Wherein.'^ 

Mutt.  —  The  Inns  of  Dungtarf  where  Used  awe  to  be  he. 
Jute.  —  You  that  side  your  voise  are  almost  inedible  to  me. 

Become  a  bitskin  more  wiseable,  as  if  I  were 

you. 

Mutt.  —  Has?  Has  at?  Hasatency?  Urp,  Boohooru!  Booru 
Usurp!  I  trumple  from  rath  in  mine  mines  when  I 
rimimirim! 

Jute.  —  One  eyegonblack.  Bisons  is  bisons.  Let  me  fore  all 
your  hasitancy  cross  your  qualm  with  trink  gilt.  Here 
have  sylvan  coyne,  a  piece  of  oak.  Ghinees  hies  good 
for  you. 

Mutt.  —  Louee,  louee!  How  wooden  I  not  know  it,  the  intel- 
lible  greytcloak  of  Cedric  Silkyshag!  Cead  mealy 
faulty  rices  for  one  dabblin  bar.  Old  grilsy  growlsy! 
He  was  poached  on  in  that  eggtentical  spot.  Here 


1^ 


where  the  liveries,  Monomark.  There  where  the  mis- 

sers  moony,  Minnikin  passe. 
Jute.  —  Simply  because  as  Taciturn  pretells,  our  wrongstory- 

shortener,  he  dumptied  the  wholeborrow  of  rubba- 

ges  on  to  soil  here. 
Mutt.  —  Just  how  a  puddinstone  inat  the  brookcells  by  a 

riverpool. 

Jute.  —  Load  Allmarshy !  Wid  wad  for  a  norse  like? 

Mutt.  —  Somular  with  a  bull  on  a  clompturf.  Rooks  roarum 
rex  roome !  I  could  snore  to  him  of  the  spumy  horn, 
with  his  woolseley  side  in,  by  the  neck  I  am  sutton 
on,  did  Brian  d'  of  Linn. 

Jute.  —  Boildoyle  and  rawhoney  on  me  when  I  can  beuraly 
forsstand  a  weird  from  sturk  to  finnic  in  such  a  pat- 
what  as  your  rutterdamrotter.  Onheard  of  and  um- 
scene!  Gut  aftermeal!  See  you  doomed. 

Mutt.  —  Quite  agreem.  Bussave  a  sec.  Walk  a  dun  blink 
roundward  this  albutisle  and  you  skull  see  how  olde 
ye  plaine  oF  my  Liters,  hunfree  and  ours,  where  wone 
to  wail  whimbrel  to  peewee  o'er  the  saltings,  where 
wilby  citie  by  law  of  isthmon,  where  by  a  droit  of 
signory,  icefloe  was  from  his  Inn  the  Byggning  to 
whose  Finishthere  Punct.  Let  erehim  ruhmuhrmuhr. 
Mearmerge  two  races,  swete  and  brack.  Morthering 
rue.  Hither,  craching  eastuards,  they  are  in  surgence: 
hence,  cool  at  ebb,  they  requiesce.  Countlessness  of  -^^ 
livestories  have  netherfallen  by  this  plage,  flick  as 
flowflakes,  litters  from  aloft,  like  a  waast  wizzard  all  of 
whirlworlds.  Now  are  all  tombed  to  the  mound,  isges 
to  isges,  erde  from  erde.  Pride,  O  pride,  thy  prize! 

Jute.  —  'Stench! 

Mutt.  —  Fiatfuit!  Hereinunder  lyethey.  Llarge  by  the  smal  an' 
everynight  life  olso  th'estrange,  babylone  the  great- 
grandhotelled  with  tit  tit  tittlehouse,  alp  on  earwig, 
drukn  on  ild,  likeas  equal  to  anequal  in  this  sound 
seemetery  which  iz  leebez  luv. 


Jute.  —  'Zmorde! 

Mutt.  —  Meldundleize!  By  the  fearse  wave  behoughted.  Des- 
pond's  sung.  And  thanacestross  mound  have  swollup 
them  all.  This  ourth  of  years  is  not  save  brickdust 
and  being  humus  the  same  roturns.  He  who  runes 
may  rede  it  on  all  fours.  O'c'stle,  nVc*stle,  tr'c'stle, 
crumbling!  Sell  me  sooth  the  fare  for  Humblin!  Hum- 
blady  Fair.  But  speak  it  allsosifdy,  moulder!  Be  in 
your  whisht! 

Jute.  —  Whysht.^^ 

Mutt.  —  The  gyant  Forficules  with  Amni  the  fay. 
Jute.  —  Howe.'^ 

Mutt.  —  Here  is  viceking's  graab. 
Jute.  —  Hwaad  ! 

Mutt.  —  Ore  you  astoneaged,  jute  you.'* 

Jute.  —  Oye  am  thonthorstrok,  thing  mud. 

(Stoop)  if  you  are  abcedminded,  to  this  daybook,  what  curios 
of  signs  (please  stoop),  in  this  allaphbed!  Can  you  rede  (since 
We  and  Thou  had  it  out  already)  its  world.'^  It  is  the  same  told 
of  all.  Many.  Miscegenations  on  miscegenations.  Tieckle.  They 
lived  und  laughed  ant  loved  end  left.  Forsin.  Thy  thingdome  is 
given  to  the  Meades  and  Porsons.  The  meandertale,  aloss  and 
again,  of  our  old  Heidenburgh  in  the  days  when  Head-in- Clouds 
walked  the  earth.  In  the  ignorance  that  iniplies  impression  that 
Jmits  knowledge  that  find^s  the  nameform  that  whets'^tliV^^ts  that 
co'hvfy  contacts  that  sweet^  sensation  that  drivei^  desire  that 
adheres  to  attachment  that  dogs  death  that  bitches  birth  that  en- 
tails the  ensuance  of  existentiality.  But  with  a  rush  out  of  his 
navel  reaching  the  reredos  of  Ramasbatham.  A  terricolous  vively- 
onview  this;  queer  and  it  continues  to  be  quaky.  AJ^tch,  ^^It, 
an(e^share  the  pourquose  of  which  was  tcfc^say  th^ji^rthcrust  at 
all  o^hours,  furrowards,  bagawards,  like  yoxen  at  the  turnpaht. 
Here  say  figurines  billycoose  arming  and  mounting.  Mounting  and 
arming  bellicose  figurines  see  here.  Futhorc,  this  liffle  efEngee  is  for 
a  firefing  called  a  flintforfall.  Face  at  the  eased!  O I  fay!  Face  at  the 
waist!  Ho,  you  fie!  Upwap  and  dump  em,  "^lace  to  U^ace!  When  a 

i8 


HP 


V0 


V 


part  so  ptee  does  duty  for  the  holos  we  soon  grow  to  use  of  an 
allforabit.  Here  (please  to  stoop)  are  selveran  cued  peteet  peas  of 
quite  a  pecuniar  interest  inaslittle  as  they  are  the  pellets  that  make 
the  tomtummy's  pay  roll.  Right  rank  ragnar  rocks  and  with  these 
rox  orangotangos  rangled  rough  and  rightgorong.  Wisha,  wisha, 
whydidtha?  Thik  is  for  thorn  that's  thuck  in  its  thoil  like  thum- 
fool's  thraitor  thrust  for  vengeance.  What  a  mnice  old  mness  it 
all  mnakes!  A  rniddenhide  hoard  of  objects!  Olives,  beets,  kim- 
mells,  dollies,  alfrids,  beatties,  cormacks  and  daltons.  Owlets'  eegs 
(O  stoop  to  please!)  are  here,  creakish  from  age  and  all  now 
quite  epsilene,  and  oldwolldy  wobblewers,  haudworth  a  wipe  o 
grass.  Sss!  See  the  snake  wurrums  everyside!  Our  durlbin  is 
sworming  in  sneaks.  They  came  to  our  island  from  triangular 
Toucheaterre  beyond  the  wet  prairie  rared  up  in  the  midst  of  the 
cargon  of  prohibitive  pomefructs  but  along  landed  Paddy  Wip- 
pingham  and  the  his  garbagecans  cotched  the  creeps  of  them 
pricker  than  our  whosethere  outofman  could  quick  up  her  whats- 
thats.  Somedivide  and  sumthelot  but  the  tally  turns  round  the 
same  balifuson.  Racketeers  and  bottloggers. 

Axe  on  thwacks  on  thracks,  axenwise.  One  by  one  place  one  \ 
be  three  dittoh  and  one  before.  Two  nursus  one  make  a  plaus- 
ible free  and  idim  behind.  Starting  off  with  a  big  boaboa  and  three- 
legged  calvers  and  ivargraine  jadesses  with  a  message  in  their 
mouths.  And  a  hundreadfilled  unleaven weight  of  liberorumqueue       ^  ^r^^ 
to  con  an  we  can  till  allhorrors  eve.  What  a  meanderthalltale  to  "^J^^, 
unfurl  and  with  what  an  end  in  view  of  squattor  and  anntisquattor 
and  postproneauntisquattor!  To  say  too  us  to  be  every  tim,  nick  orf^^^ 
and  larry  of  us,  sons  of  the  sod,  sons,  littlesons,  yea  and  lealittle- 
sons,  when  usses  not  to  be,  every  sue,  siss  and  sally  of  us,  dugters 
of  Nan!  Accusative  ahnsire!  Damadam  to  infinities! 

True  there  was  in  nillohs  dieybos  as  yet  no  lumpend  papeer 
in  the  waste  and  mightmountain  Penn  still  groaned  for  the  micies 
to  let  flee.  All  was  of  ancientry.  You  gave  me  a  boot  (signs  on 
it!)  and  I  ate  the  wind.  I  quizzed  you  a  quid  (with  for  what'^)  and 
you  went  to  the  quod.  But  the  world,  mind,  is,  was  and  will  be 
writiiig  its  own  wrunes  for  ever,  man,  on  all  matters  that  fall 


under  the  ban  of  our  infrarational  senses  fore  the  last  milch- 
camel,  the  heartvein  throbbing  between  his  eyebrowns,  has  still  to 
moor  before  the  tomb  of  his  cousin  charmian  where  his  date  is 
tethered  by  the  palm  that's  hers.  But  the  horn,  the  drinking,  the 
day  of  dread  are  not  now.  A  bone,  a  pebble,  a  ramskin;  chip  them, 
chap  them,  cut  them  up  allways;  leave  them  to  terracook  in  the 
muttheringpot;  and  Gutenmorg  with  his  crpmagnom  charter, 
tintingfast  and  great  primer  must  once  for  omniboss  step  ru- 
brickredd  out  of  the  wordpress  else  is  there  no  virtue  more  in  al- 
cohoran.  For  that  (the  rapt  one  warns)  is  what  papyr  is  meed 
of,  made  of,  hides  and  hints  and  misses  in  prints.  Till  ye  finally 
(though  not  yet  endlike)  meet  with  the  acquaintance  of  Mister 
Typus,  Mistress  Tope  and  all  the  little  typtopies.  Fillstup.  So  you 
need  hardly  spell  me  how  every  word  will  be  bound  over  to  carry 
three  score  and  ten  toptypsical  readings  throughout  the  book  of 
Doublends  Jined  (may  his  forehead  be  darkened  with  mud  who 
would  sunder!)  till  Daleth,  mahomahouma,  who  oped  it  closeth 
thereof  the.  Dor. 

Cry  not  yet!  There's  many  a  smile  to  Nondum,  with  sytty 
maids  per  man,  sir,  and  the  park's  so  dark  by  kindlelight.  But 
look  what  you  have  in  your  handself!  The  movibles  are  scrawl- 
ing in  motions,  marching,  all  of  them  ago,  in  pitpat  and  zingzang 
for  every  busy  eerie  whig's  a  bit  of  a  torytale  to  tell.  One's  upon 
a  thyme  and  two's  behind  their  lettice  leap  and  three's  among  the 
strubbely  beds.  And  the  chicks  picked  their  teeths  and  the  domb- 
key  he  begay  began.  You  can  ask  your  ass  if  he  believes  it.  And 
so  cuddy  me  only  wallops  have  heels.  That  one  of  a  wife  with 
folty  barnets.  For  then  was  the  age  when  hoops  ran  high.  Of  a 
noarch  and  a  chopwife;  of  a  pomme  full  grave  and  a  fammy  of 
levity;  or  of  golden  youths  that  wanted  gelding;  or  of  what  the 
mischievmiss  made  a  man  do.  Malmarriedad  he  was  reverso- 
gassed  by  the  frisque  of  her  frasques  and  her  prytty  pyrrhique. 
Maye  faye,  she's  la  gaye  this  snaky  woman !  From  that  trippiery 
toe  expectungpelick !  Veil,  volantine,  valentine  eyes.  She's  the 
very  besch  Winnie  blows'  Nay  on  good.  Flou  inn,  flow  ann. 
Hohore!  So  it's  sure  it  was  her  not  we!  But  lay  it  easy,  gentle 


mien,  we  are  in  rearing  of  a  norewhig.  So  weenybeeny- 

veeny teeny.  Comsy  see!  Het  wis  if  ee  newt.  Lissom!  lissom! 

I  am  doing  it.  Hark,  the  corne  entreats!  And  the  larpnotes  . 

prittle.  ^4?  m'^-" 

It  was  of  a  night,  late,  lang  time  agone,  in  an  auldstane  eld, 
when  Adam  was  delvin  and  his  madameen  spinning  watersilts, 
when  mulk  mountynotty  man  was  everybully  and  the  first  leal 
ribberrobber  that  ever  had  her  ainway  everybuddy  to  his  love- 
saking  eyes  and  everybilly  lived  alove  with  everybiddy  else,  and 
Jarl  van  Hoother  had  his  burnt  head  high  up  in  his  lamphouse, 
laying  cold  hands  on  himself.  And  his  two  little  jiminies,  cousins 
of  ourn,  Tristopher  and  Hilary,  were  kickaheeling  their  dummy 
on  the  oil  cloth  flure  of  his  homerigh,  castle  and  earthenhouse. 
And,  be  dermot,  who  come  to  the  keep  of  his  inn  only  the  niece- 
of-his-in-law,  the  prankquean.  And  the  prankquean  pulled  a  rosy 
one  and  made  her  wit  foreninst  the  dour.  And  she  lit  up  and  fire- 
land  was  ablaze.  And  spoke  she  to  the  dour  in  her  petty  perusi- 
enne:  Mark  the  Wans,  why  do  I  am  alook  alike  a  poss  of  porter- 
pease.'^  And  that  was  how  the  skirtmisshes  began.  But  the  dour 
handworded  her  grace  in  dootch  nossow:  Shut!  So  her  grace 
o' malice  kidsnapped  up  the  jiminy  Tristopher  and  into  the  shan- 
dy westerness  she  rain,  rain,  rain.  And  Jarl  van  Hoother  war- 
lessed  after  her  with  soft  dovesgall:  Stop  deef  stop  come  back  to 
my  earin  stop.  But  she  swaradid  to  him:  Unlikelihud.  And  there 
was  a  brannewail  that  same  sabboath  night  of  falling  angles  some- 
where in  Erio.  And  the  prankquean  went  for  her  forty  years' 
walk  in  Tourlemonde  and  she  washed  the  blessings  of  the  love- 
spots  off  the  jiminy  with  soap  sulliver  suddles  and  she  had  her 
four  owlers  masters  for  to  tauch  him  his  tickles  and  she  convor- 
ted  him  to  the  onesure  allgood  and  he  became  a  luderman.  So  then 
she  started  to  rain  and  to  rain  and,  be  redtom,  she  was  back  again 
at  Jarl  van  Hoother's  in  a  brace  of  samers  and  the  jiminy  with 
her  in  her  pinafrond,  lace  at  night,  at  another  time.  And  where 
did  she  come  but  to  the  bar  of  his  bristolry.  And  Jarl  von  Hoo- 
ther had  his  baretholobruised  heels  drowned  in  his  cellarmalt, 
shaking  warm  hands  with  himself  and  the  jimminy  Hilary  and 

21 


the  dummy  in  their  first  infancy  were  below  on  the  tearsheet, 
wringing  and  coughing,  like  brodar  and  histher.  And  the  prank- 
quean  nipped  a  paly  one  and  lit  up  again  and  redcocks  flew  flack- 
ering from  the  hillcombs.  And  she  made  her  witter  before  the 
wicked,  saying:  Mark  the  Twy,  why  do  I  am  alook  alike  two  poss 
of  porterpease?  And:  Shut!  says  the  wicked,  handwording  her 
madesty.  So  her  madesty  a  forethought  set  down  a  jiminy  and 
took  up  a  jiminy  and  all  the  lilipath  ways  to  Woeman*s  Land  she 
rain,  rain,  rain.  And  Jarl  von  Hoother  bleethered  atter  her  with 
a  loud  finegale:  Stop  domb  stop  come  back  with  my  earring  stop. 
But  the  prankquean  swaradid:  Am  liking  it.  And  there  was  a  wild 
old  grannewwail  that  laurency  night  of  starshootings  somewhere 
in  Erio.  And  the  prankquean  went  for  her  forty  years'  walk  in 
Turnlemeem  and  she  punched  the  curses  of  cromcruwell  with 
the  nail  of  a  top  into  the  jiminy  and  she  had  her  four  larksical 
monitrix  to  touch  him  his  tears  and  she  provorted  him  to  the 
onecertain  allsecure  and  he  became  a  tristian.  So  then  she  started 
raining,  raining,  and  in  a  pair  of  changers,  be  dom  ter,  she  was 
back  again  at  Jarl  von  Hoother 's  and  the  Larryhill  with  her  under 
her  abromette.  And  why  would  she  halt  at  all  if  not  by  the  ward 
of  his  mansionhome  of  another  nice  lace  for  the  third  charm? 
And  Jarl  von  Hoother  had  his  hurricane  hips  up  to  his  pantry- 
box,  ruminating  in  his  holdfour  stomachs  (Dare!  O  dare!),  and 
the  jiminy  Toughertrees  and  the  dummy  were  belove  on  the 
watercloth,  kissing  and  spitting,  and  roguing  and  poghuing,  like 
knavepaltry  and  naivebride  and  in  their  second  infancy.  And  the 
prankquean  picked  a  blank  and  lit  out  and  the  valleys  lay  twink- 
ling. And  she  made  her  wittest  in  front  of  the  arkway  of  trihump, 
asking:  Mark  the  Tris,  why  do  I  am  alook  alike  three  poss  of  por- 
ter pease.'^  But  that  was  how  the  skirtmishes  endupped.  For  like 
the  Campbells  acoming  with  a  fork  lance  of  lightning,  Jarl  von 
Hoother  Boanerges  himself,  the  old  terror  of  the  dames,  came 
hip  hop  handihap  out  through  the  pikeopened  arkway  of  his 
three  shuttoned  castles,  in  his  broadginger  hat  and  his  civic  chol- 
lar  and  his  allabuff  hemmed  and  his  bullbraggin  soxangloves 
and  his  ladbroke  breeks  and  his  cattegut  bandolair  and  his  fur- 

22 


■ 


J 


Yv\ov: 


framed  panuncular  cumbottes  like  a  rudd  yellan  gruebleen  Or- 
angeman in  his  violet  indigonation,  to  the  whole  longth  of  the 
strongth  of  his  bowman's  bill.  And  he  clopped  his  rude  hand  to 
his  eacy  hitch  and  he  ordurd  and  his  thick  spch  spck  for  her  to 
shut  up  shop,  dappy.  And  the  duppy  shot  the  shutter  clup  (Per- 
kodhuskurunbarggruauyagokgorlayorgromgremmitghundhurth-J 
rumathunaradidillifaititillibumullunukkunun!)  And  they  all  drank 
free.  For  one  man  in  his  armour  was  a  fat  match  always  for  any 
girls  under  shurts.  And  that  was  the  first  peace  of  illiterative 
porthery  in  all  the  flamend  floody  flatuous  world.  How  kirssy  the 
tiler  made  a  sweet  unclose  to  the  Narwhealian  captol.  Saw  fore 
shalt  thou  sea.  Betoun  ye  and  be.  The  prankquean  was  to  hold 
her  dummyship  and  the  jimminies  was  to  keep  the  peacewave 
and  van  Hoother  was  to  git  the  wind  up.  Thus  the  hearsomeness 
of  the  burger  felicitates  the  whole  of  the  polis. 

O  foenix  culprit!  Ex  nickylow  malo  comes  mickelmassed  bo- 
num.  Hill,  rill,  ones  in  company,  billeted,  less  be  proud  of.  Breast 
high  and  bestride!  Only  for  that  these  will  not  breathe  upon 
Norronesen  or  Irenean  the  secrest  of  their  soorcelossness.  Quar- 
ry silex,  Homfrie  Noanswa!  Undy  gentian  festyknees,  Li  via  No- 
answa.'*  Wolkencap  is  on  him,  frowned;  audiurient,  he  would 
evesdrip,  were  it  mous  at  hand,  were  it  dinn  of  bottles  in  the  far 
ear.  Murk,  his  vales  are  darkling.  With  lipth  she  lithpeth  to  him 
all  to  time  of  thuch  on  thuch  and  thow  on  thow.  She  he  she  ho 
she  ha  to  la.  Hairfluke,  if  he  could  bad  twig  her!  Impalpabunt, 
he  abhears.  The  soundwaves  are  his  buffeteers;  they  trompe  him 
with  their  trompes;  the  wave  of  roary  and  the  wave  of  hooshed 
and  the  wave  of  hawhawhawrd  and  the  wave  of  neverheedthem- 
horseluggarsandlistletomine.  Landloughed  by  his  neaghboormis- 
tress  and  perpetrified  in  his  ofFsprung,  sabes  and  suckers,  the 
moaning  pipers  could  tell  him  to  his  faceback,  the  louthly  one 
whose  loab  we  are  devorers  of,  how  butt  for  his  hold  halibutt,  or 
her  to  her  pudor  puff,  the  lipalip  one  whose  libe  we  drink  at,  how 
biff  for  her  tiddjrwink  of  a  windfall,  our  breed  and  washer  givers, 
there  would  not  be  a  holey  spier  on  the  town  nor  a  vestal  flout- 
ing in  the  dock,  nay  to  make  plein  avowels,  nor  a  yew  nor  an  eye 

23 


to  play  cash  cash  in  Novo  Nilbud  by  swamplight  nor  a'  toole  o' 
tall  o*  toll  and  noddy  hint  to  the  convaynience. 

He  dug  in  and  dug  out  by  the  skill  of  his  tilth  for  himself  and 
all  belonging  to  him  and  he  sweated  his  crew  beneath  his  auspice 
for  the  living  and  he  urned  his  dread,  that  dragon  volant,  and  he 
made  louse  for  us  and  delivered  us  to  boll  weevils  amain,  that 
mighty  liberator,  Unfru-Chikda-Uru-Wukru  and  begad  he  did, 
our  ancestor  most  worshipful,  till  he  thought  of  a  better  one  in 
his  windower's  house  with  that  blushmantle  upon  him  from  ears- 
end  to  earsend.  And  would  again  could  whispring  grassies  wake 
him  and  may  again  when  the  fiery  bird  disembers.  And  will 
again  if  so  be  sooth  by  elder  to  his  youngers  shall  be  said.  Have 
you  whines  for  my  wedding,  did  you  bring  bride  and  bedding, 
will  you  whoop  for  my  deading  is  a?  Wake?  Usqueadbaugham/ 

Anam  muck  an  dhoul!  Did  ye  drink  me  doornail? 

Now  be  aisy,  good  Mr  Finnimore,  sir.  And  take  your  laysure 
like  a  god  on  pension  and  don't  be  walking  abroad.  Sure  you'd 
only  lose  yourself  in  Healiopolis  now  the  way  your  roads  in 
Kapelavaster  are  that  winding  there  after  the  calvary,  the  North 
Umbrian  and  the  Fivs  Barrow  and  Waddlings  Raid  and  the 
Bower  Moore  and  wet  your  feet  maybe  with  the  foggy  dew's 
abroad.  Meeting  some  sick  old  bankrupt  or  the  Cottericks'  donkey 
with  his  shoe  hanging,  clankatachankata,  or  a  slut  snoring  with  an 
impure  infant  on  a  bench.  'Twould  turn  you  against  life,  so 
'twould.  And  the  weather's  that  mean  too.  To  part  from  Devlin 
is  hard  as  Nugent  knew,  to  leave  the  clean  tanglesome  one  lushier 
than  its  neighbour  enfranchisable  fields  but  let  your  ghost  have 
no  grievance.  You're  better  off,  sir,  where  you  are,  primesigned 
in  the  full  of  your  dress,  bloodeagle  waistcoat  and  all,  remember- 
ing your  shapes  and  sizes  on  the  pillow  of  your  babycurls  under 
your  sycamore  by  the  keld  water  where  the  Tory's  clay  will  scare 
the  varmints  and  have  all  you  want,  pouch,  gloves,  flask,  bricket, 
kerchief,  ring  and  amberulla,  the  whole  treasure  of  the  pyre,  in  the 
land  of  souls  with  Homin  and  Broin  Baroke  and  pole  ole  Lonan 
and  Nobucketnozzler  and  the  Guinnghis  Khan.  And  we'll  be 
coming  here,  the  ombre  players,  to  rake  your  gravel  and  bringing 

24 


you  presents,  won't  we,  fenians?  And  it  isn't  our  spittle  we'll  stint 
you  of,  is  it,  druids?  Not  shabbty  little  imagettes,  pennydirts  and 
dodgemyeyes  you  buy  in  the  soottee  stores.  But  offerings  of  the 
field.  Mieliodories,  that  Doctor  Faherty,  the  madison  man, 
taught  to  gooden  you.  Poppypap's  a  passport  out.  And  honey  is 
the  holiest  thing  ever  was,  hive,  comb  and  earwax,  the  food  for 
glory,  (mind  you  keep  the  pot  or  your  nectar  cup  may  yield  too 
light!)  and  some  goat's  milk,  sir,  like  the  maid  used  to  bring  you. 
Your  fame  is  spreading  like  Basilico's  ointment  since  the  Fintan 
Lalors  piped  you  overborder  and  there's  whole  households  be- 
yond the  Bothnians  and  they  calling  names  after  you.  The  men- 
here's  always  talking  of  you  sitting  around  on  the  pig's  cheeks 
under  the  sacred  rooftree,  over  the  bowls  of  memory  where  every 
hollow  holds  a  hallow,  with  a  pledge  till  the  drengs,  in  the  Salmon 
House.  And  admiring  to  our  supershillelagh  where  the  palmsweat 
on  high  is  the  mark  of  your  manument.  All  the  toethpicks  ever 
Eirenesians  chewed  on  are  chips  chepped  from  that  battery 
block.  If  you  were  bowed  and  soild  and  letdown  itself  from  the 
oner  of  the  load  it  was  that  paddyplanters  might  pack  up  plenty  and 
when  you  were  undone  in  every  point  fore  the  laps  of  goddesses  ^"^y^i,^- 
you  showed  our  labourlasses  how  to  free  was  easy.  The  game  old 
Gunne,  they  do  be  saying,  (skull !)  that  was  a  planter  for  you,  a 
spicer  of  them  all.  Begog  but  he  was,  the  G.O.G!  He's  dudd- 
andgunne  now  and  we're  apter  finding  the  sores  of  his  sedeq 
but  peace  to  his  great  limbs,  the  buddhoch,  with  the  last  league 
long  rest  of  him,  while  the  millioncandled  eye  of  Tuskar  sweeps 
the  Moylean  Main !  There  was  never  a  warlord  in  Great  Erinnes 
and  Brettland,  no,  nor  in  all  Pike  County  like  you,  they  say.  No, 
nor  a  king  nor  an  ardking,  bung  king,  sung  king  or  hung  king. 
That  you  could  fell  an  elmstree  twelve  urchins  couldn't  ring 
round  and  hoist  high  the  stone  that  Liam  failed.  Who  but  a  Mac- 
cullaghmore  the  reise  of  our  fortunes  and  the  faunayman  at  the 
funeral  to  compass  our  cause. ^  If  you  was  hogglebully  itself  and 
most  frifty  like  you  was  taken  waters  still  what  all  where  was 
your  like  to  lay  the  cable  or  who  was  the  batter  could  better 
Your  Grace.^  Mick  Mac  Magnus  MacCawley  can  take  you  off  to 

25 


the  pure  perfection  and  Leatherbags  Reynolds  tries  your  shuffle 
and  cut.  But  as  Hopkins  and  Hopkins  puts  it,  you  were  the  pale 
eggynaggy  and  a  kis  to  tilly  up.  We  calls  him  the  journeyall 
Buggaloffs  since  he  went  Jerusalemfaring  in  Arssia  Manor.  You 
had  a  gamier  cock  than  Pete,  Jake  or  Martin  and  your  archgoose 
of  geese  stubbled  for  All  Angels*  Day.  So  may  the  priest  of  seven 
worms  and  scalding  tayboil.  Papa  Vestray,  come  never  anear  you 
as  your  hair  grows  wheater  beside  the  Liffey  that's  in  Heaven! 
Hep,  hep,  hurrah  there!  Hero!  Seven  times  thereto  we  salute 
you!  The  whole  bag  of  kits,  falconplumes  and  jackboots  incloted, 
is  where  you  flung  them  that  time.  Your  heart  is  in  the  system 
of  the  Shewolf  and  your  crested  head  is  in  the  tropic  of  Copri- 
capron.  Your  feet  are  in  the  cloister  of  Virgo.  Your  olala  is  in  the 
region  of  sahuls.  And  that's  ashore  as  you  were  born.  Your  shuck 
tick's  swell.  And  that  there  texas  is  tow  linen.  The  loamsome 
roam  to  Laffayette  is  ended.  Drop  in  your  tracks,  babe !  Be  not 
unrested!  The  headboddylwatcher  of  the  chempel  of  Isid, 
Totumcalmum,  saith:  I  know  thee,  metherjar,  I  know  thee,  sal- 
vation boat.  For  we  have  performed  upon  thee,  thou  abrama- 
nation,  who  comest  ever  without  being  invoked,  whose  coming 
is  unknown,  all  the  things  which  the  company  of  the  precentors 
and  of  the  grammarians  of  Chris tpatrick's  ordered  concerning 
thee  in  the  matter  of  the  work  of  thy  tombing.  Howe  of  the  ship- 
men,  steep  wall!  !  c/w\ 

Everything's  going  on  the  same  or  so  it  appeals  to  all  of  us, 
in  the  old  holmsted  here.  Coughings  all  over  the  sanctuary,  bad 
scrant  to  me  aunt  Florenza.  The  horn  for  breakfast,  one  o'gong 
for  lunch  and  dinnerchime.  As  popular  as  when  Belly  the  First 
was  keng  and  his  members  met  in  the  Diet  of  Man.  The  same 
shop  slop  in  the  window.  Jacob's  lettercrackers  and  Dr  Tipple's 
Vi-Cocoa  and  the  Eswuards'  desippated  soup  beside  Mother  Sea- 
gull's syrup.  Meat  took  a  drop  when  Reilly-Parsons  failed.  Coal's 
short  but  we've  plenty  of  bog  in  the  yard.  And  barley's  up  again, 
begrained  to  it.  The  lads  is  attending  school  nessans  regular,  sir, 
spelling  beesknees  with  hathatansy  and  turning  out  tables  by 
mudapplication.  Allfor  the  books  and  never  pegging  smashers 

26 


I 


after  Tom  Bowe  Glassarse  or  Timmy  the  Tosser.  'Tisraely  the 
truth!  No  isn't  it,  roman  pathoricks?  You  were  the  double] ojoited 
janitor  the  morning  they  were  delivered  and  you'll  be  a  grandfer 
yet  entirely  when  the  ritehand  seizes  what  the  lovearm  knows. 
Kevin's  just  a  doat  with  his  cherub  cheek,  chalking  oghres  on 
walls,  and  his  litde  lamp  and  schoolbelt  and  bag  of  knicks,  playing 
postman's  knock  round  the  diggings  and  if  the  seep  were  milk 
you  could  lieve  his  olde  by  his  ide  but,  laus  sake,  the  devil  does 
be  in  that  knirps  of  a  Jerry  sometimes,  the  tarandtan  plaidboy, 
making  encostive  inkum  out  of  the  last  of  his  lavings  and  writing 
a  blue  streak  over  his  bourseday  shirt.  Hetty  Jane's  a  child  of 
Mary.  She'll  be  coming  (for  they're  sure  to  choose  her)  in  her 
white  of  gold  with  a  tourch  of  ivy  to  rekindle  the  flame  on  Felix 
Day.  But  Essie  Shanahan  has  let  down  her  skirts.  You  remember 
Essie  in  our  Luna's  Convent.^  They  called  her  Holly  Merry  her 
lips  were  so  ruddyberry  and  Pia  de  Purebelle  when  the  redminers 
riots  was  on  about  her.  Were  I  a  clerk  designate  to  the  Williams- 
woodsmenufactors  I'd  poster  those  pouters  on  every  jamb  in  the 
town.  She's  making  her  rep  at  Lanner's  twicenightly.  With  the 
tabarine  tamtammers  of  the  whirligigmagees.  Beats  that  cachucha 
flat.  'Twould  dilate  your  heart  to  go. 

Aisy  now,  you  decent  man,  with  your  knees  and  lie  quiet  and 
repose  your  honour's  lordship !  Hold  him  here,  Ezekiel  Irons,  and 
may  God  strengthen  you!  It's  our  warm  spirits,  boys,  he's  spoor- 
ing. Dimitrius  O'Flagonan,  cork  that  cure  for  the  Clancartys !  You 
swamped  enough  since  Portobello  to  float  the  Pomeroy.  Fetch 
neahere,  Pat  Koy!  And  fetch  nouyou,  Pam  Yates!  Be  nayther 
angst  of  Wramawitch!  Here's  lumbos.  Where  misties  swaddlum, 
where  misches  lodge  none,  where  mystries  pour  kind  on,  O 
sleepy!  So  be  yet! 

I've  an  eye  on  queer  Behan  and  old  Kate  and  the  butter,  trust  me. 
She'll  do  no  jugglywuggly  with  her  war  souvenir  postcards  to 
help  to  build  me  murial,  tippers!  I'll  trip  your  traps!  Assure  a 
sure  there !  And  we  put  on  your  clock  again,  sir,  for  you.  Did  or 
didn't  we,  sharestutterers.'^  So  you  won't  be  up  a  stump  entirely. 
Nor  shed  your  remnants.  The  sternwheel's  crawling  strong.  I 

27 


seen  your  missus  in  the  hall.  Like  the  queenoveire.  Arrah,  it*s 
herself  that's  fine,  too,  don't  be  talking!  Shirksends?  You  storyan 
Harry  chap  longa  me  Harry  chap  storyan  grass  woman  plelthy 
good  trout.  Shakeshands.  Dibble  a  hayfork's  wrong  with  her  only 
her  lex's  salig.  Boald  Tib  does  be  yawning  and  smirking  cat's 
hours  on  the  Pollockses'  woolly  round  tabouretcushion  watch- 
ing her  sewing  a  dream  together,  the  tailor's  daughter,  stitch  to 
her  last.  Or  while  waiting  for  winter  to  fire  the  enchantement, 
decoying  more  nesters  to  fall  down  the  flue.  It's  an  allavalonche  that 
blows  nopussy  food.  If  you  only  were  there  to  explain  the  mean- 
ing, best  of  men,  and  talk  to  her  nice  of  guldenselver.  The  lips 
would  moisten  once  again.  As  when  you  drove  with  her  to  Fin- 
drinny  Fair.  What  with  reins  here  and  ribbons  there  all  your 
hands  were  employed  so  she  never  knew  was  she  on  land  or  at 
sea  or  swooped  through  the  blue  like  Airwinger's  bride.  She 
was  flirtsome  then  and  she's  fluttersome  yet.  She  can  second  a 
song  and  adores  a  scandal  when  the  last  post's  gone  by.  Fond  of 
a  concertina  and  pairs  passing  when  she's  had  her  forty  winks 
for  supper  after  kanekannan  and  abbely  dimpling  and  is  in  her 
merlin  chair  assotted,  reading  her  Evening  World.  To  see  is 
it  smarts,  full  lengths  or  swaggers.  News,  news,  all  the  news. 
Death,  a  leopard,  kills  fellah  in  Fez.  Angry  scenes  at  Stormount. 
Stilla  Star  with  her  lucky  in  goingaways.  Opportunity  fair  with 
the  China  floods  and  we  hear  these  rosy  rumours.  Ding  Tams  he 
noise  about  all  same  Harry  chap.  She's  seeking  her  way,  a  chickle 
a  chuckle,  in  and  out  of  their  serial  story,  Les  Loves  of  Selskar 
et  Pervenche^  freely  adapted  to  The  Novvergins  Viv.  There'll 
be  bluebells  blowing  in  salty  sepulchres  the  night  she  signs  her 
final  tear.  Zee  End.  But  that's  a  world  of  ways  away.  Till  track 
laws  time.  No  silver  ash  or  switches  for  that  one!  While  flattering 
candles  flare.  Anna  Stacey's  how  are  you!  Worther  waist  in  the 
noblest,  says  Adams  and  Sons,  the  wouldpay  actionneers.  Her 
hair's  as  brown  as  ever  it  was.  And  wivvy  and  wavy.  Repose  you 
now!  Finn  no  more! 

For,  be  that  samesake  sibsubstitute  of  a  hooky  salmon,  there's 
