within  their  quarterings,  to  play  tops  or  kites  or  hoops  or  marbles, 
curchycurchy,  gawking  on  him,  for  the  issuance  of  his  pnum  and 
softnoising  one  of  them  to  another  one,  the  boguaqueestliers. 

476 


And  it  is  what  they  began  to  say  to  him  tetrahedrally  then,  the 
masters,  what  way  was  he. 

—  He*s  giving,  the  wee  bairn.  Yun  has  lived. 

—  Yerra,  why  dat,  my  leader.^ 

—  Wisha,  is  he  boosed  or  what,  alannah.'^ 

—  Or  his  wind's  from  the  wrong  cut,  says  Ned  of  the  Hill. 

—  Lesten! 

—  Why  so  and  speak  up,  do  you  hear  me,  you  sir.'' 

—  Or  he's  rehearsing  somewan's  funeral. 

—  Whisht  outathat!  Hubba's  up! 

And  as  they  were  spreading  abroad  on  their  octopuds  their 
drifter  nets,  the  chromous  gleamy  seiners'  nets  and,  no  lie,  there  was 
word  of  assonance  being  softspoken  among  those  quartermasters. 

—  Get  busy,  kid! 

—  Chirpy,  come  now! 

—  The  present  hospices  is  a  good  time. 
— -  I'll  take  on  that  chap. 

For  it  was  in  the  back  of  their  mind's  ear,  temptive  lissomer, 
how  they  would  be  spreading  in  quadriliberal  their  azurespotted 
fine  attractable  nets,  their  nansen  nets,  from  Matt  Senior  to  the 
thurrible  mystagogue  after  him  and  from  thence  to  the  neighbour 
and  that  way  to  the  puisny  donkeyman  and  his  crucifer's  cauda. 
And  in  their  minds  years  backslibris,  so  it  was,  slipping  beauty, 
how  they  would  be  meshing  that  way,  when  he  rose  to  it,  with  T  u 
the  planckton  at  play  about  him,  the  quivers  of  scaly  silver  and 
their  clutches  of  chromes  of  the  highly  lucid  spanishing  gold 
whilst,  as  hour  gave  way  to  mazing  hour,  with  Yawn  himself 
keeping  time  with  his  thripthongue,  to  ope  his  blurbeous  lips  he 
would,  a  let  out  classy,  the  way  myrrh  of  the  moor  and  molten 
moonmist  would  be  melding  mellifond  indo  his  mouth. 

—  Y? 

—  Before  You! 

—  Ecko!  How  sweet  thee  answer  makes!  Afterwheres.^  In  the 
land  of  lions'  odor.'^ 

—  Friends !  First  if  yu  don't  mind.  Name  yur  historical  grouns. 

—  This  same  prehistoric  barrow  'tis,  the  orangery. 

477 


—  I  see.  Very  good  now.  It  is  in  your  orangery,  I  take  it,  you 
have  your  letters.  Can  you  hear  here  me,  you  sir.'^ 

—  Throsends.  For  my  darling.  Typette! 

—  So  long  aforetime.'^  Can  you  hear  better.'^ 

—  Millions.  For  godsends.  For  my  darling  dearling  one. 

—  Now,  to  come  nearer  zone;  I  would  like  to  raise  my 
deuterous  point  audibly  touching  this.  There  is  this  maggers. 
I  am  told  by  our  interpreter,  Hanner  Esellus,  that  there  are  fully 
six  hundred  and  six  ragwords  in  your  malherbal  Magis  lande- 
guage  in  which  wald  wand  rimes  alpman  and  there  is  resin  in  all 
roots  for  monarch  but  yav  hace  not  one  pronouncable  teerm  that 
blows  in  all  the  vallums  of  tartallaght  to  signify  majestate,  even 
provisionally,  nor  no  rheda  rhoda  or  torpentine  path  or  halluci- 
nian  via  nor  aurellian  gape  nor  sunkin  rut  nor  grossgrown  trek 
nor  crimeslaved  cruxway  and  no  moorhens  cry  or  mooner's 
plankgang  there  to  lead  us  to  hopenhaven.  Is  such  the  imde  deri- 
vatur  casematter  messio!  Frankly.  Magis  megis  enerretur  mynus 
hoc  intelligow, 

—  How.'^  C*est  mal  prononsable,  tartagliano,  perfrances.  Vous 
n'avez  pas  d'o  dans  votre  boche  provenciale,  mousoo.  Je  m*in- 
cline  mais  Moy  jay  trouvay  la  dee  dang  les  champs.  Hay  sham  nap 
poddy  velour,  come  on! 

—  Hep  there!  Commong,  sa  na  pa  de  valure.'^  Whu*s  teit  dans 
yur  jambs.'*  Whur*s  that  inclining  and  talkin  about  the  messiah 
so  cloover.'*  A  true's  to  your  trefling!  Whure  yu! 

—  Trinathan  partnick  dieudonnay.  Have  you  seen  her.'* 
Typette,  my  tactile  O ! 

—  Are  you  in  your  fatherick,  lonely  one.'* 

—  The  same.  Three  persons.  Have  you  seen  my  darling  only 
one.'*  I  am  sohohold! 

—  What  are  yu  shevering  about,  ultramontane,  like  a  houn.'* 
Is  there  cold  on  ye,  doraphobian.'*  Or  do  yu  want  yur  primafairy 
schoolmam.'* 

—  The  woods  of  fogloot!  O  mis  padredges! 

—  Whisht  awhile,  greyleg!  The  duck  is  rising  and  you'll  wake 
that  stand  of  plover.  I  know  that  place  better  than  anyone.  Sure, 

478 


I  used  to  be  always  overthere  on  the  fourth  day  at  my  grand- 
mother's place,  Tear-nan-Ogre,  my  little  grey  home  in  the  west, 
in  or  about  Mayo  when  the  long  dog  gave  tongue  and  they 
coursing  the  marches  and  they  straining  at  the  leash.  Tortoise- 
shell  for  a  guineagould!  Burb!  Burb!  Burb!  Follow  me  up 
Tucurlugh!  That's  the  place  for  the  claire  oysters,  Polldoody, 
County  Conway.  I  never  knew  how  rich  I  was  like  another  story  in 
the  zoedone  of  the  zephyros,  strolling  and  strolling,  carrying  my 
dragoman.  Meads  Marvel,  thass  withumpronouceable  tail,  along 
the  shore.  Do  you  know  my  cousin,  Mr  Jasper  Dougal  that 
keeps  the  Anchor  on  the  Mountain,  the  parson's  son,  Jasper  of 
the  Tuns,  Pat  Whateveryournameis.'^ 

—  Dood  and  I  dood.  The  wolves  of  Fochlut!  By  Whydoyou- 
callme.^  Do  not  flingamejig  to  the  twolves! 

—  Turcafiera  amd  that's  a  good  wan  right  enough!  Wooluvs 
no  less! 

—  One  moment  now,  if  I  foreshorten  the  bloss  on  your 
bleather.  Encroachement  spells  erosion.  Dunlin  and  turnstone 
augur  us  where,  how  and  when  best  as  to  burial  of  carcass,  fuse- 
lage of  dump  and  committal  of  noisance.  But,  since  you  invocate 
austers  for  the  trailing  of  vixens,  I  would  like  to  send  a  cormo- 
rant around  this  blue  lagoon.  Tell  me  now  this.  You  told  my 
larned  friend  rather  previously,  a  moment  since,  about  this  mound 
or  barrow.  Now  I  suggest  to  you  that  ere  there  was  this  plague- 
burrow,  as  you  seem  to  call  it,  there  was  a  burialbattell,  the  boat 
of  millions  of  years.  Would  you  bear  me  out  in  that,  relatively 
speaking,  with  her  jackstaff  jerking  at  her  penny  ladders,  why 
not,  and  sizing  a  fair  sail,  knowest  thout  the  kind.'*  The  Pourquoi 
Pas^  bound  for  Weissduwasland,  that  fourmaster  barquentine, 
Webster  says,  our  ship  that  ne're  returned.  The  Frenchman,  I  say, 
was  an  orangeboat.  He  is  a  boat.  You  see  him.  The  both  how 
you  see  is  they!  Draken  af  Danemork!  Sacked  it  or  ate  it.'*  What! 
Hennu!  Spake  ab  laut! 

— Couch,  cortege,  ringbarrow,  dungcairn.  Beseek  the  runes 
and  see  the  longurn!  Allmaun  away  when  you  hear  the  gang- 
horn.  And  meet  Nautsen.  Ess  Ess.  O  ess.  Warum  night!  Con- 

479 


ning  two  lay  payees.  Norsker.  Her  raven  flag  was  out,  the 
slaver.  I  trow  pon  good,  jordan's  scaper,  good's  barnet  and 
trustyman.  Crouch  low,  you  pigeons  three!  Say,  call  that  girl  with 
the  tan  tress  awn!  Call  Wolfhound!  Wolf  of  the  sea.  Folchu! 
Folchu ! 

—  Very  good  now.  That  folklore's  straight  from  the  ass  his 
mouth.  I  will  crusade  on  with  the  parent  ship,  weather  prophet- 
ting,  far  away  from  those  green  hills,  a  station,  Ireton  tells  me, 
bonofide  for  keeltappers,  now  to  come  to  the  midnight  middy 
on  this  levantine  ponenter.  From  Daneland  sailed  the  oxeyed 
man,  now  mark  well  what  I  say. 

—  Magnus  Spadebeard,  korsets  krosser,  welsher  perfyddye. 
A  destroyer  in  our  port.  Signed  to  me  with  his  baling  scoop.  Laid 
bare  his  breastpaps  to  give  suck,  to  suckle  me.  Ecce  Hagios 
Chrisman! 

—  Oh,  Jeyses,  fluid!  says  the  poisoned  well.  Futtfishy  the 
First.  Hootchcopper's  enkel  at  the  navel  manuvres! 

—  Hep!  Hello  there.  Bill  of  old  Bailey!  Whu's  he.^^  Whu's 
this  lad,  why  the  pups.'^ 

—  Hunkalus  Childared  Easterheld.  It's  his  lost  chance, 
Emania.  Ware  him  well. 

—  Hey!  Did  you  dream  you  were  ating  your  own  tripe, 
acushla,  that  you  tied  yourself  up  that  wrynecky  fix.'^ 

—  I  see  now.  We  move  in  the  beast  circuls.  Grimbarb  and 
pancercrucer !  You  took  the  words  out  of  my  mouth.  A  child's 
dread  for  a  dragon  vicefather.  Hillcloud  encompass  us!  You 
mean  you  lived  as  milky  at  their  lyceum,  couard,  while  you 
learned,  volp  volp,  to  howl  yourself  wolfwise.  Dyb!  Dyb!  Do 
your  best. 

—  I  am  dob  dob  dobbling  like  old  Booth's,  courteous.  The 
cubs  are  after  me,  it  zeebs,  the  whole  totem  pack,  vuk  vuk  and 
vuk  vuk  to  them,  for  Robinson's  shield. 

—  Scents  and  gouspils!  The  animal  jangs  again!  Find  the 
fingall  harriers!  Here  howl  me  wiseacre's  hat  till  I  die  of  the 
milkman's  lupus! 

—  What?  Wolfgang.'^  Whoah!  Talk  very  slowe! 

480 


5 


—  Hail  him  heathen^  heal  him  holystone! 

Courser^  Recourser^  Changechild  ? 

Eld  as  endall^  earth  ? 

—  A  cataleptic  mithyphallic !  Was  this  Totem  Fulcrum  Est 
Ancestor  yu  hald  in  Dies  Eirae  where  no  spider  webbeth  or 
Anno  Mundi  ere  bawds  plied  in  SkifFstrait?  Be  fair,  Chris! 

—  Dream.  Ona  nonday  I  sleep.  I  dreamt  of  a  somday.  Of  a 
wonday  I  shall  wake.  Ah!  May  he  have  now  of  here  fearfilled 
me!  Sinflowed,  O  sinflowed!  Fia!  Fia!  Befurcht  christ! 

—  I  have  your  tristich  now;  it  recurs  in  three  times  the  same 
differently  (there  is  such  a  fui  fui  story  which  obtains  of  him): 
comming  nown  from  the  asphalt  to  the  concrete,  from  the  human 
historic  brute,  Finnsen  Faynean,  occeanyclived,  to  this  same 
vulganized  hillsir  from  yours,  Mr  Tupling  Toun  of  Morning 
de  Heights,  with  his  lavast  flow  and  his  rambling  undergroands, 
would  he  reoccur  Ad  Horam,  as  old  Romeo  Rogers,  in  city  or 
county,  and  your  sure  ob,  or  by,  with  or  from  an  urb,  of  you 
know  the  differenciabus,  as  brauchbarred  in  apabhramsa,  sierrah ! 
We  speak  of  Gun,  the  farther.  And  in  the  locative.  Bap!  Bap! 

—  Ouer  Tad,  Hellig  Babbau,  whom  certayn  orbits  assertant 
re  humeplace  of  Chivitats  Ei,  Smithwick,  Rhonnda,  Kaledon, 
Salem  (Mass),  Childers,  Argos  and  Duthless.  Well,  I  am  advised 
he  might  in  a  sense  be  both  nevertheless,  every  at  man  like  my- 
self, suffix  it  to  say,  Abrahamsk  and  Brookbear!  By  him  it  was 
done  bapka,  by  me  it  was  gone  into,  to  whom  it  will  beblive, 
Mushame,  Mushame !  I  am  afraid  you  could  not  heave  ahore  one 
of  your  own  old  stepstones,  barnabarnabarn,  over  a  stumble- 
down  wall  here  in  Huddlestown  to  this  classic  Noctuber  night 
but  itandthey  woule  binge,  much  as  vecious,  off  the  dosshouse 
back  of  a  racerider  in  his  truetoflesh  colours,  either  handicapped 
on  her  flat  or  barely  repeating  himself.  That  is  a  tiptip  tim  oldy 
faher  now  the  man  I  go  in  fear  of.  Tommy  Terracotta,  and  he 
could  be  all  your  and  my  das,  the  brodar  of  the  founder  of  the 
father  of  the  finder  of  the  pfander  of  the  pfunder  of  the  furst  man 
in  Ranelagh,  fue!  fue!  Petries  and  violet  ice  (I  am  yam,  as  Me 
and  Tam  Tower  used  to  j agger  pemmer  it,  over  at  the  house  of 

481 


Eddy's  Christy,  meaning  Dodgfather,  Dodgson  and  Coo)  and 
spiriduous  sanction! 

—  Breeze  softly.  Aures  are  aureas.  Hau's  his  naun? 

—  Me  das  has  or  oreils.  Piercey,  piercey,  piercey,  piercey! 

—  White  eyeluscious  and  muddyhorsebroth !  Pig  Pursyriley! 
But  where  do  we  get  off,  chiseller? 

—  Haltstille,  Lucas  and  Dublinn!  Vulva!  Vulva!  Vulva! 
Vulva! 

—  Macdougal,  Adantic  City,  or  his  onagrass  that  is,  chuam 
and  coughan  1  I  would  go  near  identifying  you  from  your  stavro- 
tides,  Jong  of  Maho,  and  the  weslarias  round  your  yokohahat. 
And  that  O'mulanchonry  plucher  you  have  from  the  worst 
curst  of  Ireland,  Glwlwd  of  the  Mghtwg  Grwpp,  is  no  use  to 
you  either,  Johnny  my  donkeyschott.  Number  four,  fix  up  your 
spreadeagle  and  pull  your  weight! 

—  Hooshin  hom  to  our  regional's  hin  and  the  gander  of 
Hayden.  Would  ye  ken  a  young  stepschuler  of  psychical  chiro- 
graphy,  the  name  of  Keven,  or  (let  outers  pray)  Evan  Vaughan, 
of  his  Posthorn  in  the  High  Street,  that  was  shooing  a  Guiney 
gagag,  Poulepinter,  that  found  the  dogumen  number  one,  I 
would  suggest,  an  illegible  downfumbed  by  an  unelgible? 

—  If  I  do  know  sinted  sageness?  Sometimes  he  would  keep 
silent  for  a  few  minutes  as  if  in  prayer  and  clasp  his  forehead  and 
during  the  time  he  would  be  thinking  to  himself  and  he  would 
not  mind  anybody  who  would  be  talking  to  him  or  crying 
stinking  fish.  But  I  no  way  need  you,  stroke  oar  nor  your  quick 
handles.  Your  too  farfar  a  cock  of  the  north  there,  Matty  Armagh, 
and  your  due  south  so. 

—  South  I  see.  You're  up-in-Leal-Ulster  and  I'm-free-Down- 
in-Easia,  this  is  much  better.  He  is  cured  by  faith  who  is  sick  of 
fate.  The  prouts  who  will  invent  a  writing  there  ultimately  is  the 
poeta,  still  more  learned,  who  discovered  the  raiding  there  origin- 
ally. That's  the  point  of  eschatology  our  book  of  kills  reaches 
for  now  in  soandso  many  counterpoint  words.  What  can't  be 
coded  can  be  decorded  if  an  ear  aye  sieze  what  no  eye  ere  grieved 
for.  Now,  the  doctrine  obtains,  we  have  occasioning  cause  caus- 

482 


il 


I 


I 


I 


ing  effects  and  affects  occasionally  recausing  altereffects.  Or  I 
will  let  me  take  it  upon  myself  to  suggest  to  twist  the  penman's 
tale  posterwise.  The  gist  is  the  gist  of  Shaum  but  the  hand  is 
the  hand  of  Sameas.  Shan  -  Shim  -  Schung.  There  is  a  strong 
suspicion  on  counterfeit  Kevin  and  we  all  remember  ye  in  child- 
hood's reverye.  Tis  the  bells  of  scandal  that  gave  tune  to 
grumble  over  him  and  someone  between  me  and  thee.  He  would 
preach  to  the  two  turkies  and  dipdip  all  the  dindians,  this  master 
the  abbey,  and  give  gold  tidings  to  all  that  are  in  the  bonze  age 
of  anteproresurrectionism  to  entrust  their  easter  neappearance 
to  Borsaiolini's  house  of  hatcraft.  He  is  our  sent  on  the  firm. 
Now,  have  you  reasonable  hesitancy  in  your  mind  about  him 
after  fourpriest  redmass  or  are  you  in  your  post?  Tell  me  andat 
sans  dismay.  Leap,  pard! 

—  Fierappel  putting  years  on  me !  Nwo,  nwo !  This  bolt  in 
hand  be  my  worder!  I'll  see  you  moved  farther,  blarneying 
Marcantonio!  What  cans  such  wretch  to  say  to  I  or  how  have  My 
to  doom  with  him?  We  were  wombful  of  mischief  and  initium- 
wise,  everliking  a  liked,  hairytop  on  heeltipper,  alpybecca's  un- 
wachsibles,  an  ikeson  am  ikeson,  that  babe,  imprincipially,  my 
leperd  brethern,  the  Puer,  ens  innocens  of  but  fifteen  primes. 
Ya  all  in  your  kalblionized  so  trilustriously  standing  the  real 
school,  to  be  upright  as  his  match,  healtheous  as  is  egg,  saviour 
so  the  salt  and  good  wee  braod,  parallaling  buttyr,  did  I  alter- 
mobile  him  to  a  flare  insiding  hogsfat.  Been  ike  bins  kinder- 
gardien?  I  know  not,  O  cashla,  I  am  sure  offed  habitand  this 
undered  heaven,  meis  enfins,  contrasting  the  first  mover,  that 
father  I  ascend  fromming  knows,  as  I  think,  caused  whom  I,  a 
self  the  sign,  came  remaining  being  dwelling  ayr,  plage  and 
watford  as  to  I  was  eltered  impostulance  possessing  my  future 
state  falling  towards  thrice  myself  resting  the  childhide  when 
I  received  the  habit  following  Mezienius  connecting  Mezosius 
including  was  verted  embracing  a  palegrim,  circumcised  my 
hairs.  Oh  laud,  and  removed  my  clothes  from  patristic  motives, 
meas  minimas  culpads!  Permitting  this  ick  (ickle  coon  icoocoon) 
crouched  low  entering  humble  down,  dead  thrue  mean  scato- 

483 


logical  past,  making  so  smell  partaking  myself  to  confess  abiding 
clean  tumbluponing  yous  octopods,  mouthspeech  allno  finger- 
force,  owning  my  mansuetude  before  him  attaching  Audeon's 
prostratingwards  mine  sore  accompanying  my  thrain  tropps 
offering  meye  eyesalt,  what  I  (the  person  whomin  I  now  am)  did 
not  do,  how  he  to  say  essied  anding  how  he  was  making  errand 
andanding  how  he  all  locutey  sunt,  why  did  you,  my  sexth  best 
friend,  blabber  always  you  would  be  so  delated  to  back  me,  then 
ersed  irredent,  toppling  Humphrey  hugging  Nephew,  old  begge- 
laut,  designing  such  post  sitting  his  night  office?  Annexing  then, 
producing  Saint  Momuluius,  you  snub  around  enclosing  your 
moving  motion  touching  the  other  catachumens  continuing  say 
providing  append  of  signature  quoniam  you  will  celebrand  my 
dirthdags  quoniam,  concealed  a  concealer,  I  am  twosides  uppish, 
a  mockbelief  insulant,  ending  none  meer  hyber  irish.  Well,  chunk 
your  dimned  chink,  before  avtokinatown,  forasmuch  as  many 
have  tooken  in  hand  to,  I  may  as  well  humbly  correct  that  ves- 
pian  now  in  case  of  temporalities.  I've  my  pockets  full  comeplay 
of  you  laycreated  cardonals,  ap  rince,  ap  rowler,  ap  rancer,  ap 
rowdey!  Improperial!  I  saved  you  fore  of  the  Hekkites  and  you 
loosed  me  hind  bland  Harry  to  the  burghmote  of  Aud  Dub.  I 
teachet  you  in  fair  time,  my  elders,  the  W.X.Y.Z.  and  P.Q.R.S.  of 
legatine  powers  and  you,  Ailbey  and  Ciardeclan,  I  learn,  episcop- 
ing  me  altogether,  circumdeditioned  me.  I  brought  you  from  the 
loups  of  Lazary  and  you  have  remembered  my  lapsus  langways. 
Washywatchywataywatashy!  Oirasesheorebukujibun!  Wata- 
cooshy  lot!  Mind  of  poison  is.  That  time  thing  think!  Honorific 
remembrance  to  spit  humble  makes.  My  ruridecanal  caste  is  a  cut 
above  you  peregrines.  Aye  vouchu  to  rumanescu.  See  the  leabhour 
of  my  generations !  Has  not  my  master,  Theophrastius  Spheropneu- 
maticus,  written  that  the  spirit  is  from  the  upper  circle?  Tm  of  the 
ochlocracy  with  Prestopher  Palumbus  and  Porvus  Parrio.  Soa 
koa  Kelly  Terry  per  Chelly  Derry  lepossette.  Ho  look  at  my 
jailbrand  Exquovis  and  sequencias  High  marked  on  me  fake- 
similar  in  the  foreign  by  Pappagallus  and  Pumpusmugnus: 
ahem !  Anglicey:  Eggs  squawfish  lean  yoe  nun  feed  marecurious, 

484 


p 


Sagart  can  self  laud  nilobstant  to  Lowman  Catlick's  patrician 
morning  coat  of  arms  with  my  High  tripenniferry  cresta  and 
caudal  mottams:  Itch  dean:  which  Gaspey,  Otto  and  Sauer,  he 
renders:  echo  stay  so!  Addressing  eat  or  not  eat  body  Yours 
am.  And,  Mind,  praisegad,  is  the  first  praisonal  Egoname  Yod 
heard  boissboissy  in  Moy  Bog's  domesday.  Hastan  the  vista!  Or 
in  alleman:  Suck  at! 

—  Suck  it  yourself,  sugarstick!  Misha,  Yid  think  whose  was 
asking  to  luckat  your  sore  toe  or  to  taste  your  gaspy,  hot  and 
sour!  Ichthyan!  Hegvat  tosser!  Gags  be  plebsed!  Between  his 
voyous  and  her  consinnantes !  Thugg,  Dirke  and  Hacker  with 
Rose  Lankester  and  Blanche  Yorke!  Are  we  speachin  d'anglas 
landadge  or  are  you  sprakin  sea  Djoytsch?  Oy  soy,  Bleseyblasey, 
where  to  go  is  knowing  remain?  Become  quantity  that  discourse 
bothersome  when  what  do?  Knowing  remain?  Come  back,  baddy 
wrily,  to  Bullydamestough !  Cum  him,  buddy  rowly,  with  me! 
What  about  your  thruppenny  croucher  of  an  old  fellow,  me  boy, 
through  the  ages,  tell  us,  eh?  What  about  Brian's  the  Vauntand- 
onlieme.  Master  Monk,  eh,  eh,  Spira  in  Me  Domino^  spear  me 
Doyne!  Fat  prize  the  bonafide  peachumpidgeonlover,  eh,  eh, 
eh,  esquire  earwugs,  escusado,  of  Jenkins'  Area,  with  his  I've  Ivy 
under  his  tangue  and  the  hohallo  to  his  dullaphone,  before  there 
was  a  sound  in  the  world?  How  big  was  his  boost  friend  and  be 
shanghaied  to  him?  The  swaaber!  The  twicer,  trifoaled  in  Wan- 
stable!  Loud's  curse  to  him!  If  you  hored  him  outerly  as  we 
harum  lubberintly,  from  morning  rice  till  nightmale,  with  his 
drums  and  bones  and  hums  in  drones  your  innereer'd  heerdly 
heer  he.  Ho  ha  hi  he  hung!  Tsing  tsing! 

—  Me  no  angly  mo,  me  speakee  Yellman's  lingas.  Nicey  Doc 
Mistel  Lu,  please!  Me  no  pigey  ludiments  all  same  numpa  one 
Topside  Tellmastoly  fella.  Me  pigey  savvy  a  singasong  anothel 
time.  Pleasie,  Mista  Lukie  Walkie!  Josadam  cowbelly  maam 
belongame  shepullamealahmalong,  begolla,  Jackinaboss  belonga- 
she;  plentymuch  boohoomeo. 

—  Hell's  Confucium  and  the  Elements !  Tootoo  moohootch ! 
Thot's  never  the  postal  cleric,  checking  chinchin  chat  with  nip- 

485 


ponnippers!  Halt  there  sob  story  to  your  lambdad's  tale!  Are 
you  roman  cawthrick  432? 

—  Quadrigue  my  yoke. 
Triple  my  tryst. 
Tandem  my  sire, 

—  History  as  her  is  harped.  Too  the  toone  your  owldfrow  lied 
of.  Tantris,  hattrick,  tryst  and  parting,  by  vowelglide!  I  feel 
your  thrilljoy  mouths  overtspeaking,  O  dragoman,  hands  under- 
studium.  Plunger  words  what  paddle  verbed.  Mere  man's  mime: 
God  has  jest.  The  old  order  changeth  and  lasts  like  the  first. 
Every  third  man  has  a  chink  in  his  conscience  and  every  other 
woman  has  a  jape  in  her  mind.  Now,  fix  on  the  little  fellow  in  my 
eye,  Minucius  Mandrake,  and  follow  my  little  psychosinology, 
poor  armer  in  slingslang.  Now  I,  the  lord  of  Tuttu,  am  placing 
that  inital  T  square  of  burial  jade  upright  to  your  temple  a 
moment.  Do  you  see  anything,  templar.^ 

—  I  see  a  blackfrinch  pliestrycook  .  .  .  who  is  carrying  on 
his  brainpan  ...  a  cathedral  of  lovejelly  for  his  .  .  .  Tiens^  how 
he  is  like  somebodies ! 

—  Pious,  a  pious  person.  What  sound  of  tistress  isoles  my 
ear.'^  I  horizont  the  same,  this  serpe  with  ramshead,  and  lay  it 
lightly  to  your  lip  a  little.  What  do  you  feel,  liplove.'* 

—  I  feel  a  fine  lady  .  .  .  floating  on  a  stillstream  of 
isisglass  .  .  .  with  gold  hair  to  the  bed  .  .  .  and  white  arms  to  the 
twinklers  ...  O  la  la! 

—  Purely,  in  a  pure  manner.  O,  sey  but  swift  and  still  a  vain 
essaying!  Trothed  today,  trenned  tomorrow.  I  invert  the  initial 
of  your  tripartite  and  sign  it  sternly,  and  adze  to  girdle,  on  your 
breast.  What  do  you  hear,  breastplate.^ 

—  I  ahear  of  a  hopper  behidin  the  door  slappin  his  feet  in  a 
pool  of  bran. 

—  Bellax,  acting  like  a  bellax.  And  so  the  triptych  vision 
passes.  Out  of  a  hillside  into  a  hillside.  Fairshee  fading.  Again 
am  I  deliciated  by  the  picaresqueness  of  your  irmages.  Now, 
the  oneir  urge  iterimpellant,  I  feel  called  upon  to  ask  did  it 
ever  occur  to  you,  qua  you,  prior  to  this,  by  a  stretch  of 

486 


I 

1 


your  iberborealic  imagination,  when  it's  quicker  than  this  quack- 
ing that  you  might,  bar  accidens,  be  very  largely  substituted  in 
potential  secession  from  your  next  life  by  a  complementary  char- 
acter, voices  apart?  Upjack!  I  shudder  for  your  thought!  Think! 
Put  from  your  mind  that  and  take  on  trust  this.  The  next  word 
depends  on  your  answer. 

—  I'm  thinking  to,  thogged  be  thenked!  I  was  just  trying  to 
think  when  I  thought  I  felt  a  flea.  I  might  have.  I  cannot  say  for 
it  is  of  no  significance  at  all.  Once  or  twice  when  I  was  in  odin- 
burgh  with  my  addlefoes,  Jake  Jones,  the  handscabby,  when  I 
thinkled  I  wore  trying  on  my  garden  substisuit,  boy's  apert,  at 
my  nexword  nighboor's,  and  maybe  more  largely  nor  you 
quosh  yet  you,  messmate,  realise.  A  few  times,  so  to  shape,  I  chanced 
to  be  stretching,  in  the  shadow  as  I  thought,  the  liferight  out 
of  myself  in  my  ericulous  imaginating.  I  felt  feeling  a  half  Scotch 
and  pottage  like  roung  my  middle  ageing  like  Bewley  in  the 
baste  so  that  I  indicate  out  to  myself  and  I  swear  my  gots  how 
that  I'm  not  meself  at  all,  no  jolly  fear,  when  I  realise  bimiselves 
how  becomingly  I  to  be  going  to  become. 

—  O,  is  that  the  way  with  you,  you  craythur.^  In  the  becom- 
ing was  the  weared,  wontnat!  Hood  maketh  not  frere.  The  voice 
is  the  voice  of  jokeup,  I  fear.  Are  you  imitation  Roma  now  or 
Amor  now.  You  have  all  our  empathies,  eh,  Mr  Trickpat,  if  you 
don't  mind,  that  is,  aside  from  sings  and  mush,  answering  to  my 
straight  question.^ 

—  God  save  the  monk!  I  won't  mind  this  is,  answering  to 
your  strict  crossqueets,  whereas  it  would  be  as  unethical  for  me 
now  to  answer  as  it  would  have  been  nonsensical  for  you  then 
not  to  have  asked.  Same  no  can,  home  no  will,  gangin  I  am. 
Gangang  is  Mine  and  I  will  return.  Out  of  my  name  you  call  me, 
Leelander.  But  in  my  shelter  you'll  miss  me.  When  Lapac  walks 
backwords  he's  darkest  horse  in  Capalisoot.  You  knew  me  once 
but  you  won't  know  me  twice.  I  am  simpliciter  arduus^  ars  of 
the  schoo,  Freeday's  child  in  loving  and  thieving. 

—  My  child,  know  this!  Some  portion  of  that  answer  appears 
to  have  been  token  by  you  from  the  writings  of  Saint  Synodius, 

487 


that  first  liar.  Let  us  hear,  therefore,  as  you  honour  and  obey  the 
queen,  whither  the  indwellingness  of  that  which  shamefieth  be 
entwined  of  one  or  atoned  of  two.  Let  us  hear,  Art  simplicissime ! 

— Dearly  beloved  brethren:  Bruno  and  Nola,  ley mon  bogholders 
and  stationary  lifepartners  off  orangey  Saint  Nessau  Street,  were 
explaining  it  avicendas  all  round  each  other  ere  yesterweek  out 
of  Ibn  Sen  and  Ipanzussch.  When  himupon  Nola  Bruno  mono- 
polises his  egobruno  most  unwillingly  seses  by  the  mortal  powers 
alionola  equal  and  opposite  brunoipso,  id  est^  eternally  provoking 
alio  opposite  equally  as  provoked  as  Bruno  at  being  eternally 
opposed  by  Nola.  Poor  omniboose,  singalow  singelearum:  so 
is  he! 

—  One  might  hear  in  their  beyond  that  lionroar  in  the  air 
again,  the  zoohoohoom  of  Felin  make  Call.  Bruin  goes  to  Noble, 
aver  who  is.'^  If  is  itsen.'^  Or  you  mean  Nolans  but  Volans,  an 
alibi,  do  you  Mutemalice,  suffering  unegoistically  from  the  singular 
but  positively  enjoying  on  the  plural.^  Dustify  of  that  sole,  you 
breather !  Ruemember,  blither,  thou  must  lie ! 

— Oyessoyess!  I  never  dramped  of  prebeing  a  postman  but 
I  mean  in  ostralian  someplace,  mults  deeply  belubdead;  my 
allaboy  brother,  Negoist  Cabler,  of  this  city,  whom  'tis  better 
ne'er  to  name,  my  said  brother,  the  skipgod,  expuUed  for 
looking  at  churches  from  behind,  who  is  sender  of  the  Hullo 
Eve  Cenograph  in  prose  and  worse  every  AUso's  night.  High 
Brazil  Brandan's  Deferred,  midden  Erse  clare  language,  Nought- 
noughtnought  nein.  Assass.  Dublire,  per  Neuropaths.  Punk. 
Starving  today  plays  punk  opening  tomorrow  two  plays  punk 
wire  splosh  how  two  plays  punk  Cabler.  Have  you  forgotten 
poor  Alby  Sobrinos,  Geoff,  you  blighter,  identifiable  by  the 
necessary  white  p^ch  on  his  rear.'^  How  he  went  to  his  swilters- 
land  after  his  lungs,  my  sad  late  brother,  before  his  coglionial 
expancian.'^  Won't  you  join  me  in  a  small  halemerry,  a  bottle  of 
the  best,  for  wellmet  Capeler,  united  Irishmen,  what  though  pre- 
ferring the  stranger,  the  coughs  and  the  itches  and  the  minnies 
and  the  ratties  the  opulose  and  bilgenses,  for  of  his  was  the 
patriots  mistaken.  The  heart  that  wast  our  Graw  McGree! 

488 


p 


Yet  be  there  some  who  mourn  him,  concluding  him  dead, 
and  more  there  be  that  wait  astand.  His  fuchs  up  the  staires 
and  the  ladgers  in  his  haires,  he  ought  to  win  that  V.V.C, 
Fullgrapce  for  an  endupper,  half  muxy  on  his  whole!  Would 
he  were  even  among  the  lost!  From  ours  bereft  beyond  be- 
longs. Oremus  poor  fraternibus  that  he  may  yet  escape  the 
gallews  and  still  remain  ours  faithfully  departed.  I  wronged  you. 
I  never  want  to  see  more  of  bad  men  but  I  want  to  learn  from 
any  on  the  airse,  like  Tass  with  much  thanks,  here's  ditto,  if 
he  lives  sameplace  in  the  antipathies  of  austrasia  or  anywhere 
