our  myterbilder  his  fullen  aslip.  And  who  will  wager  but  he'll 
Shonny  Bhoy  be,  the  fleshlumpfleeter  from  Poshtapengha  and  all 
he  bares  sobsconcious  inklings  shadowed  on  soulskin.  Its  segnet  "  J 
yores,  the  strake  of  a  hin.  Nup.  Laying  the  cloth,  to  fore  of  them. 
And  thanking  the  fish,  in  core  of  them.  To  pass  the  grace  for 
Gard  sake!  Ahmohn.  Mr  Justician  Matthews  and  Mr  Justician 
Marks  and  Mr  Justician  Luk  de  Luc  and  Mr  Justinian  Johnston- 
Johnson.  And  the  aaskart,  see,  behind !  Help,  help,  hurray !  All- 
sup,  allsop!  Four  ghools  to  nail!  Cut  it  down,  mates,  look  slippy! 
They've  got  a  dathe  with  a  swimminpull.  Dang!  Ding!  Dong! 
Dung!  Dinnin.  Isn't  it  great  he  is  swaying  above  us  for  his  good 

377 


and  ours.  Fly  your  balloons,  dannies  and  dennises!  He's  door- 
knobs dead!  And  Annie  Delap  is  free!  Ones  more.  We  could 
ate  you,  par  Buccas,  and  imbabe  through  you,  reassuranced  in 
the  wild  lac  of  godiness.  One  fledge,  one  brood  till  hulm 
culms  evurdyburdy.  Huh  the  throman!  Huh  the  traidor.  Huh 
the  truh.  Arrorsure,  he's  the  mannork  of  Arrahland  over- 
sense  he  horrhorrd  his  name  in  thuthunder.  Rrrwwwkkkrrr ! 
And  seen  it  rudden  up  in  fusefiressence  on  the  flashmurket. 
P.R.C.R.L.L.  Royloy.  Of  the  rollorrish  rattillary.  The  lewd- 
ningbluebolteredallucktruckalltraumconductor!  The  unnamed 
nonirishblooder  that  becomes  a  Greenislender  overnight!  But 
we're  molting  superstituettes  out  of  his  fulse  thortin  guts.  Tried 
mark,  Easterlings.  Sign,  Soideric  O'Cunnuc,  Rix.  Ad  versed  ord, 
Magtmorken,  Kovenhow.  There's  a  great  conversion,  myn !  Cou- 
cous!  Find  his  causcaus!  From  Motometusolum  through  Bulley 
and  Cowlie  and  Diggerydiggerydock  down  to  bazeness's  usual.'^ 
He's  alight  there  still,  by  Mike!  Loose  afore!  Bung!  Bring  forth 
your  deed!  Bang!  Till  is  the  right  time.  Bang!  Partick  Thistle 
agen  S.  Megan's  versus  Brystal  Palace  agus  the  Walsall !  Putsch ! 
Tiemore  moretis  tisturb  badday!  The  playgue  will  be  soon  over, 
rats!  Let  sin!  Geh  tont!  All  we  wants  is  to  get  peace  for  posses- 
sion. We  dinned  unnerstunned  why  you  sassad  about  thurteen 
to  aloafen,  sor,  kindly  repeat!  Or  ledn  us  alones  of  your  lungorge, 
parsonifier  propounde  of  our  edelweissed  idol  worts!  Shaw  and 
Shea  are  lorning  obsen  so  burgle  up,  gandfarder,  and  gurgle  me 
gurk.  You  can't  impose  on  frayshouters  like  os.  Every  tub  here 
spucks  his  own  fat.  Hang  coersion  everyhow!  And  smotther- 
mock  Gramm's  laws!  But  we're  a,drippindhrue^ayleague  all  at 
"ones'.  In  the  buginning  is  the  T^oid,  in  the  muddle  is  the  sound- 
dance  and  thereinofter  you're  in  the  unbewised  again,  vund 
vulsyvolsy.  You  talker  dunsker's  brogue  men  we  our  souls 
speech  obstruct  hostery.  Silence  in  thouglit!  Spreach !  Wear 
anartful  of  outer,  noceiise !  Pawpaw,  wowow!  Momerry  twelfths, 
noebroed!  That  was  a  good  one,  ha!  So  it  will  be  quite  a  material 
what  May  farther  be  unvuloped  for  you,  old  Mighty^  when  it's 
aped  to  foul  a  delfian  in  die  Malinung.  Ha  ha!  Talk  of  Paddy- 

378 


: 


barke's  echo!  Kick  nuck,  Knockcastle!  Muck!  And  you'll  nose  it, 
O  you'll  nose  it,  without  warnward  from  we.  We  don't  know  the 
sendor  to  whome.  But  you'll  find  Chiggenchugger's  taking  the 
Treaclyshortcake  with  Bugle  and  the  Bitch  pairsadrawsing  and 
Horssmayres  Prosession  tyghting  up  under  the  threes.  SXQJ^ 
Press  stop.  To  press  stop.  AIL  to  press  stop.  And  be  the  seem 
talkin  wharabahts  hosetanzies,  dat  sure  is  siillibrated  word !  Bing 
bong !  Saxolooter,  for  congesters  are  salders'  prey.  Snap  it  up  in 
the  loose,  patchy  the  blank!  Anyone  can  see  you're  the  son  of  a 
gmmdl.  Fellow  him  up  too,  Carlow!  Woes  to  the  worm- 
quashed,  aye,  and  wor  to  the  winner!  Think  of  Aerian's  Wall  and 
the  Fall  of  Toss.  Give  him  another  for  to  volleyholleydoodlem ! 
His  lights  not  all  out  yet,  the  liverpooser!  Boohoohoo  it  oose! 
With  seven  hores^ always  in  the  home  of  his  thinkingthings,  his 
nodsloddledome  of  his  noiselisslesoughts.  Two  Jdas,  two  Eyas^ 
two  Nessies  and  Rubyjuby.  Phook!  No  wonder,  pipes  as  kirles, 
that  he  sthings  like  a  rheinbok.  One  bed  night  he  had  the  dely- 
siums  that  they  were  an^queens  mobbing  him.  Fell  stiff.  Oh, 
ho,  ho,  ho,  ah,  he,  he!  Abedicate  yoursglf.  It  just  gegs  our  goad. 
He'll  be  the  deaf  of  us,  pappappoppopcuddle,  samblind  daiy- 
£udder.  Yus,  sord,  fathe,  you  woll,  putty  our  wraughther! 
What  we  waits  be  after  Whyfore  we  come  agooding.'^  None  of 
you,  cock  icy!  You  keep  that ^enayearn  and  her  fortycantle  glim 
iookbehinder.  We  might  do  with  rubiny  leeses.  But  of  all  your 
wanings  send  us^.Qut  your  peppydecked  ales  and  you'll  not  be 
such  a  bad  lot.  The  rye  is  well  for  whose  amind  but  the  wheateny 
one  is  proper  lovely.  B  E  N  K!  We  sincerestly  trust  that  Missus 
with  the  kiddies  of  sweet  Gorteen  has  not  B  I  N  K  to  their  very 
least  tittles  deranged  if  in  B  U  N  K  and  we  greesiously  augur  for 
your  Meggers  a  BEN  K  B  A  N  K  B  O  N  K  to  sloop^in  with 
all  sorts  of  adceterus  and  adsaturas.  It's  our  last  fight,  Megantic, 
fear  you  will!  The  refergee's  took  to  hailing  to  time  the  pass. 
There  goes  the  blackwatchwomen,  all  in  white,  flaxed  up,  pur- 
gad!  Right  toe,  Armitage!  Tem  for  Tam  at  Timmotty  Hall! 
We're  been  carried  away.  Beyond  bournes  and  bowers.  So  we'll 
leave  it  to  Keyhoe,  Danelly  and  Pykemhyme,  the  three  muskrat- 

379 


) 


4-  y  A*/^ 


eers,  at  the  end  of  this  age  that  had  it  from  Variants'  Katey 
Sherratt  that  had  it  from  Variants'  Katey  Sherratt's  man  for  the 
bonnefacies  of  Blashwhite  and  Blushred  of  the  Aquasancta,  Liffey 
Patrol  to  wind  up  and  to  tells  of  all  befells  after  that  to  Mocked 
Majesty  in  the  Malincurred  Mansion. 

So  you  were  saying,  boys?  Anyhow  he  what? 

So  anyhow,  melumps  and  mumpos  of  the  hoose  uncommons, 
after  that  to  wind  up  that  longtobechronickled  gettogether 
thanksbetogiving  day  at  Glenfinnisk-en-la-Valle,  the  anniver- 
sary of  his_finst  Jiomy  commulion,  after  that  same  barbecue  bean- 
feast was  all  over  poor  old  hospitable  corn  and^eggfactor,  King 
Roderick  O'Conor,  the  paramount  chief  polemarch  and  last  pre- 
electric  king  of  Ireland^  who  was  anything  you  say  yourself  be- 
tween fiftyodd  and  fiftyeven  years  of  age  at  the  time  after  the 
socalled  last  supper  he  greatly  gave  in  his  umbrageous  house  of 
the  hundred  bottles  with  the  radio  beamer  tower  andjts  hangars, 
^himbneys  and_ecjuilines  or,  at  least,  he  was'nt  actually  the  then 
last  king  of  all  Ireland  for  the  time  being  for  the  jolly  good 
reason  that  he  was  still  such  as  he  was  the  eminent  king  of  all 
Ireland  himself  after  the  last  preeminent  king  of  all  Ireland,  the 
whilom  joky  old  top  that  went  before  him  in  the  Taharan  dy- 
nasty. King  Arth  Mockmorrow  Koughenough  of  the  leathered 
leggions,  now  of  parts  unknown,  (God  guard  his  generous 
comicsongbook  soul!)  that  put  a  poached  fowl  in  the  poor  man's 
pot  before  he  took  to  his  pallyass  with  the  weeping  eczema  for 
ftJ^i  ■  better  and  worse  until  he  went  under  the  grass  quilt  on  us,  never- 
theless, the  year  the  sugar  was  scarce,  and  we  to  lather  and  shave 
and  frizzle  him,  like  a  bald  surging  buoy  and  himself  down 
to  three  cows  that  was  meat  and  drink  and  dogs  and  washing 
to  him,  'tis  good  cause  we  have  to  remember  it,  going  through 
summersultryngs  of  snow  and  sleet  witht  the  widow  Nolan's 
goats  and  the  Brownes  girls  neats  anyhow,  wait  till  I  tell  you, 
what  did  he  do,  poor  old  Roderick  O'Conor  Rex,  the  aus- 
'  picious  waterproof  monarch  of  all  Ireland^  when  he  found  him- 

self all  alone  by  himself  in  his  grand  old  handwedown  pile  after 
all  of  them  had  all  gone  off  with  themselves  to  their  castles  of 

380 


I 


mud,  as  best  they  cud,  on  footback,  owing  to  the  leak  of  the 
McCarthy's  mare,  in  extended  order,  a  tree's  length  from  the 
longest  way  out,  down  the  switchbackward  slidder  of  the  land- 
sown  route  of  Hauburnea's  liveliest  vinnage  on  the  brain,  the  ^ 
unimportant  Parthalonians  with  the  mouldy  Firbolgs  and  the 
Tuatha  de  Danaan  googs  and  the  ramblers  from  Clane  and  all 
the  rest  of  the  notmuchers  that  he  did  not  care  the  royal  spit  out  \m 
of  his^stensible  mouth  about,  well,  what  do  you  think  he  did, 
sir,  but,  faix^  he  just  went  heeltapping  through  the  winespilth 
and  weevily  popcorks  that  were  kneedeep  round  his  own  right  ^^^jL«^ 
royal  round  rollicking  toper's  table,  with  his  old  Roderick  Ran-  f 
dom  pullon  hat  at  a  Lanty  Leary  cant  on  him  and  Mike  Brady's 
shirt  and  Greene's  linnet  collarbow  and  his  Ghenter's  gaunts  and 
his  Macclefield's  swash  and  his  readymade  Reillys  and  his  pan- 
prestuberian  poncho,  the  body  you'd  pity  him,  the  way  the  world 
is,  poor  he,  the  heart  of  Midleinster  and  the  supereminent  lord  of  ^ 
them  all,  overwhelmed  as  he  was  with  black  ruin  like  a  sponge 
out  of  water,  allocutioning  in  bellcantos  to  his  own  oliverian 
society  MacGuiney's  Dreans  of  Ergen  Adams  and  thruming 
through  all  to  himself  with  diversed  tonguesed  through  his  old 
tears  and  his  ould  plaised  drawl,  starkened  by  the  most  regal  of 
belches,  like  a  blurney  Cashelmagh  crooner  that  lerking  Clare 
air,  the  blackberd's  ballad  Pve  a  terrible  errible  lot  todue  todie 
todue  tootorribleday^  well,  what  did  he  go  and  do  at  all.  His  Most  j 
Exuberant  Majesty  King  Roderick  O'Conor  but,  arrah  bedamnbut, 
he  finalised  by  lowering  his  woolly  throat  with  the  wonderful 
mo  i/^cmidnight  thirst  was  on  him,  as  keen  as  mustard,  he  could  not  tell 
what  he  did  ale,  that  bothered  he  was  from  head  to  tail,  and, 
wishawishawish,  leave  it,  what  the  Irish,  boys,  can  do,  if  he  did'nt 
go,  sliggymaglooral  reemyround  and  suck  up,  sure  enough,  like 
a  Trojan,  in  some  particular  cases  with  the  assistance  of  his  vene- 
rated tongue,  whatever  surplus  rotgut,  sorra  much,  was  left  by  the 
lazy  lousers  of  maltknights  and  beerchurls  in  the  different  bot- 
toms of  the  various  different  replenquished  drinking  utensils  left 
there  behind  them  on  the  premisses  by  that  whole  hogsheaded 
firkin  family,  the  departed  honourable  homegoers  and  other  sly- 

381 


grogging  suburbanites,  such  as  it  was,  fall  and  fall  about,  to  the 
brindishing  of  his  charmed  life,  as  toastified  by  his  cheeriubi- 
cundenances,no  matter  whether  it  was  chateaubottled  Guiness's 
or  Phoenix  brewery  stout  it  was  or  John  Jameson  and  Sons  or 
Roob  Coccola  or,  for  the  matter  of  that,  O'Connell's  famous  old 
Dublin  ale  that  he  wanted  like  hell,  more  that  halibut  oil  or 
jesuits  tea,  as  a  fall  back,  of  several  different  quantities  and  quali- 
ties amounting  in  all  to,  I  should  say,  considerably  more  than  the 
better  part  of  a  gill  or  naggin  of  imperial  dry  and  liquid  measure 
till,  welcome  be  from  us  here,  till  the  rising  of  the  mom,  till  that 
hen  of  Kaven's  shows  her  beaconegjg,  and  Chapwellswendows 
stain  our  horyhistoricold  and  Father  MacMichael  stamps  for 
aitch  o'clerk  mess  and  the  Litvian  Newestlatter  is  seen^  sold  and 
delivered  and  all's  set  for  restart  after  the  silence,  like  his  ancestors  I 
to  this  day  after  him  (that  the  blazings  of  their  ouldmouldy  gods 
may  attend  to  them  we  pray!),  overopposides  the  cowery  lad  in 
the  corner  and  forenenst  the  staregaze  of  the  cathering  candled, 
that  adornment  of  his  album  and  folkenfather  of  familyans,  he 
came  acrash  a  crupper  sort  of  a  sate  on  accomondation  and  the 
very  boxst  in  all  his  composs,  whereuponce,  behome  the  fore 
for  cove  and  trawlers,  heave  hone,  leave  lone,  Larry's  on  the 
focse  ^d  Faugh  MacHugh  O'Bawlar  at  the  wheel,  one  to  do  and 
one  to  dare,  par  by  par,  a  peerless  pair,  ever  here  and  over  there, 
/  with  his  fol  the  dee  oil  the  doo  on  the  flure  of  his  feats  and  the 

/     feels  of  the  fumes  in  the  wakes  of  his  ears  our  wineman  from 

V     Barley  home  he  just  slumped  to  throne.         '  t  ^ 

So  sailed  the  stout  ship  Nansy  Hans.  From  Liff  away.  For 
Nattenlaender.  As  who  has  come  returns.  Farvel,  farerne  1  Good- 
bark,  goodbye! 

Now  follow  we  out  by  Starloe! 


382 


♦ 


( 


—  Three  quarks  for  Muster  Mark! 

Sure  he  hasnt  got  much  of  a  hark 

And  sure  any  he  has  it's  all  beside  the  mark. 

But  0,  Wreneagle  Almighty,  wouldn't  un  he  a  sky  of  a  lark 

To  see  that  old  bu^ard  whooping  about  for  uns  shirt  in  the  dark 

And  he  hunting  round  for  uns  speckled  trousers  around  by  Palmer- 

stown  Park? 
Hohohoho^  moulty  Mark! 

You  re  the  rummest  old  rooster  ever  flopped  out  of  a  Noah's  ark 

And  you  think  you  re  cock  of  the  wark. 

Fowls y  up!  Tr  'utys  the  spry  young  spark 

That'll  tread  her  and  wed  her  and  bed  her  and  red  her 

Without  ever  winking  the  tail  of  a  feather 

And  that's  how  that  chap's  going  to  make  his  money  and  mark! 

Overhoved,  shrillgleescreaming.  That  song  sang  seaswans. 
The  winging  ones.  Seahawk,  seagull,  curlew  and  plover,  kestrel 
and  capercailzie.  All  the  birds  of  the  sea  they  trolled  out  rightbold 
when  they  smacked  the  big  kuss  of  Trustan  with  Usolde. 

And  there  they  were  too,  when  it  was  dark,  whilest  the  wild- 
caps  was  circling,  as  slow  their  ship,  the  winds  aslight,  upborne 
the  fates,  the  wardorse  moved,  by  courtesy  of  Mr  Deaubaleau 
Downbellow  Kaempersally,  listening  in,  as  hard  as  they  could,  in 
Dubbeldorp,  the  donker,  by  the  tourneyold  of  the  wattarfalls, 
with  their  vuoxens  and  they  kemin  in  so  hattajocky  (only  a 

383 


quartebuck  askull  for  the  last  acts)  to  the  solans  and  the  sycamores 
and  the  wild  geese  and  the  gannets  and  the  migratories  and  the 
mistlethrushes  and  the  auspices  and  all  the  birds  of  the  rockby- 
suckerassousyoceanal  sea,  all  four  of  them,  all  sighing  and  sob- 
bing, and  Hstening.  Moykle  ahoykling! 

They  were  the  big  four,  the  four  maaster  waves  of  Erin,  all 
listening,  four.  There  was  old  Matt  Gregory  and  then  besides  old 
Matt  there  was  old  Marcus  Lyons,  the  four  waves,  and  oftentimes 
they  used  to  be  saying  grace  together,  right  enough,  bausnabeatha, 
in  Miracle  Squeer:  here  now  we  are  the  four  of  us:  old  Matt  Gre- 
gory and  old  Marcus  and  old  Luke  Tarpey:  the  four  of  us  and 
sure,  thank  God,  there  are  no  more  of  us:  and,  sure  now,  you 
wouldn't  go  and  forget  and  leave  out  the  other  fellow  and  old 
Johnny  MacDougall:  the  four  of  us  and  no  more  of  us  and  so 
now  pass  the  fish  for  Christ  sake.  Amen:  the  way  they  used  to  be 
saying  their  grace  before  fish,  repeating  itself,  after  the  interims 
of  Augusburgh  for  auld  lang  syne.  And  so  there  they  were,  with 
their  palms  in  their  hands,  like  the  pulchrum's  proculs,  spraining 
their  ears,  luistening  and  listening  to  the  oceans  of  kissening,  with 
their  eyes  glistening,  all  the  four,  when  he  was  kiddling  and 
cuddling  and  bunnyhugging  scrumptious  his  colleen  bawn  and 
dinkum  belle,  an  oscar  sister,  on  the  fifteen  inch  loveseat,  behind 
the  chieftaness  stewardesses  cubin,  the  hero,  of  Gaelic  champion, 
the  onliest  one  of  her  choice,  her  bleaueyedeal  of  a  girl's  friend, 
neither  bigugly  nor  smallnice,  meaning  pretty  much  everything 
to  her  then,  with  his  sinister  dexterity,  light  and  rufthandling, 
vicemversem  her  ragbags  et  assaucyetiams,  fore  and  aft,  on  and 
offsides,  the  brueburnt  sexfutter,  handson  and  huntsem,  that  was 
palpably  wrong  and  bulbubly  improper,  and  cuddling  her  and 
kissing  her,  tootyfay  charmaunt,  in  her  ensemble  of  maidenna 
blue,  with  an  overdress  of  net,  tickled  with  goldies,  Isolamisola, 
and  whisping  and  lisping  her  about  Trisolanisans,  how  one  was 
whips  for  one  was  two  and  two  was  lips  for  one  was  three,  and 
dissimulating  themself,  with  his  poghue  like  Arrah-na-poghue, 
the  dear  dear  annual,  they  all  four  remembored  who  made  the 
world  and  how  they  used  to  be  at  that  time  in  the  vulgar  ear 

384 


I 


( 

f 

I 


cuddling  and  kiddling  her^  after  an  oyster  supper  in  CuUen's  barn, 
from  under  her  mistlethrush  and  kissing  and  listening,  in  the  good 
old  bygone  days  of  Dion  Boucicault,  the  elder,  in  Arrah-na- 
pogue,  in  the  otherworld  of  the  passing  of  the  key  of  Two- 
tongue  Common,  with  Nush,  the  carrier  of  the  word,  and  with 
Mesh,  the  cutter  of  the  reed,  in  one  of  the  farback,  pitchblack 
centuries  when  who  made  the  world,  when  they  knew  O'Clery, 
the  man  on  the  door,  when  they  were  all  four  collegians  on  the 
nod,  neer  the  Nodderlands  Nurskery,  whiteboys  and  oakboys, 
peep  of  tim  boys  and  piping  tom  boys,  raising  hell  while  the  sin 
was  shining,  with  their  slates  and  satchels,  playing  Florian's  fables 
and  communic  suctions  and  vellicar  frictions  with  mixum  mem- 
bers, in  the  Queen's  Ultonian  colleges,  along  with  another  fellow, 
a  prime  number,  Totius  Quotius,  and  paying  a  pot  of  tribluts 
to  Boris  O'Brien,  the  buttler  of  Clumpthump,  two  looves,  two 
turnovers  plus  (one)  crown,  to  see  the  mad  dane  ating  his 
vitals.  Wulf !  Wulf !  And  throwing  his  tongue  in  the  snakepit.  Ah 
ho!  The  ladies  have  mercias!  It  brought  the  dear  prehistoric 
scenes  all  back  again,  as  fresh  as  of  yore.  Matt  and  Marcus,  natu- 
ral born  lovers  of  nature,  in  all  her  moves  and  senses,  and  after 
that  now  there  he  was,  that  mouth  of  mandibles,  vowed  to  pure 
beauty,  and  his  Arrah-na-poghue,  when  she  murmurously,  after 
she  let  a  cough,  gave  her  firm  order,  if  he  wouldn't  please  mind, 
for  a  sings  to  one  hope  a  dozen  of  the  best  favourite  lyrical 
national  blooms  in  Luvillicit,  though  not  too  much,  reflecting  on 
the  situation,  drinking  in  draughts  of  purest  air  serene  and  re- 
velling in  the  great  outdoors,  before  the  four  of  them,  in  the  fair 
fine  night,  whilst  the  stars  shine  bright,  by  she  light  of  he  moon, 
we  longed  to  be  spoon,  before  her  honeyoldloom,  the  plaint  effect 
being  in  point  of  fact  there  being  in  the  whole,  a  seatuition  so 
shocking  and  scandalous  and  now,  thank  God,  there  were  no  more 
of  them  and  he  poghuing  and  poghuing  like  the  Moreigner 
bowed  his  crusted  hoed  and  Tilly  the  Tailor's  Tugged  a  Tar  in  the 
Arctic  Newses  Dagsdogs  number  and  there  they  were,  like  a 
foremasters  in  the  rolls,  listening,  to  Rolando's  deepen  darblun 
Ossian  roll,  (Lady,  it  was  just  too  gorgeous,  that  expense  of  a 

385 


lovely  tint,  embellished  by  the  charms  of  art  and  very  well  con- 
ducted and  nicely  mannered  and  all  the  horrid  rudy  noisies  locked 
up  in  nasty  cubbyhole!)  as  tired  as  they  were,  the  three  jolly 
topers,  with  their  mouths  watering,  all  the  four,  the  old  connu- 
bial men  of  the  sea,  yambing  around  with  their  old  pantometer, 
in  duckasaloppics,  Luke  and  Johnny  MacDougall  and  all  wishen- 
ing  for  anything  at  all  of  the  bygone  times,  the  wald  times  and 
the  fald  times  and  the  hempty  times  and  the  dempty  times,  for  a 
cup  of  kindness  yet,  for  four  farback  tumblerfuls  of  woman 
squash,  with  them,  all  four,  listening  and  spraining  their  ears  for 
the  millennium  and  all  their  mouths  making  water. 

Johnny.  Ah  well,  sure,  that's  the  way  (up)  and  it  so  happened 
there  was  poor  Matt  Gregory  (up),  their  pater  familias,  and  (up) 
the  others  and  now  really  and  (up)  truly  they  were  four  dear 
old  heladies  and  really  they  looked  awfully  pretty  and  so  nice  and 
bespectable  and  after  that  they  had  their  fathomglasses  to  find 
out  all  the  fathoms  and  their  half  a  tall  hat,  just  now  like  the  old 
Merquus  of  Pawerschoof,  the  old  determined  despot,  {quiescents 
in  bragef)  only  for  the  extrusion  of  the  saltwater  or  the  auctioneer 
there  dormont,  in  front  of  the  place  near  O'Clery's,  at  the  darku- 
mound  numbur  wan,  beside  that  ancient  Dame  street,  where  the 
statue  of  Mrs  Dana  O'Connell,  prostituent  behind  the  Trinity 
College,  that  arranges  all  the  auctions  of  the  valuable  colleges, 
Bootersbay  Sisters,  like  the  auctioneer  Battersby  Sisters,  the  pru- 
misceous  creaters,  that  sells  all  the  emancipated  statues  and 
flowersports,  James  H.  Tickell,  the  jaypee,  off  Hoggin  Green, 
after  he  made  the  centuries,  going  to  the  tailturn  horseshow,  be- 
fore the  angler  nomads  flood,  along  with  another  fellow,  active 
impalsive,  and  the  shoeblacks  and  the  redshanks  and  plebeians 
and  the  barrancos  and  the  cappunchers  childerun,  Jules,  every- 
one, Gotopoxy,  with  the  houghers  on  them,  highstepping  the 
fissure  and  fracture  lines,  seven  five  threes  up,  three  five 
sevens  down,  to  get  out  of  his  way,  onasmuck  as  their  witliers 
conditions  could  not  possibly  have  been  improved  upon, 
(praisers  be  to  deeseesee !)  like  hopolopocattls,  crumping  oround 
their  Judgity  Yaman,  and  all  the  tercentenary  horses  and  priest- 

386 


♦ 


hunters,  from  the  Curragh,  and  confusionaries  and  the  authori- 
ties, Noord  Amrikaans  and  Suid  Aferican  cattleraiders  (so  they 
say)  all  over  like  a  tiara  dullfuoco,  in  his  grey  half  a  tall  hat  and 
his  amber  necklace  and  his  crimson  harness  and  his  leathern  jib 
and  his  cheapshein  hairshirt  and  his  scotobrit  sash  and  his  para- 
pilagian  gallowglasses  (how  do  you  do,  jaypee,  Elevato !)  to  find 
out  all  the  improper  colleges  (and  how  do  you  do,  Mr  Dame 
James?  Get  out  of  my  way!),  forkbearded  and  bluetoothed  and 
bellied  and  boneless,  from  Strathlyffe  and  Aylesburg  and  North- 
umberland Anglesey,  the  whole  yaghoodurt  sVeepstakings  and 
all  the  horsepowers.  But  now,  talking  of  hayastdanars  and 
wolkingology  and  how  our  seaborn  isle  came  into  exestuance, 
(the  explutor,  his  three  andesiters  and  the  two  pantellarias)  that 
reminds  me  about  the  manausteriums  of  the  poor  Marcus  of  Lyons 
and  poor  Johnny,  the  patrician,  and  what  do  you  think  of  the  four 
of  us  and  there  they  were  now,  Hstening  right  enough,  the  four 
saltwater  widowers,  and  all  they  could  remembore,  long  long  ago 
in  the  olden  times  Momonian,  throw  darker  hour  sorrows,  the 
princest  day,  when  Fair  Margrate  waited  Swede  Villem,  and  Lally 
in  the  rain,  with  the  blank  prints,  now  extincts,  after  the  wreak 
of  Wormans'  Noe,  the  barmaisigheds,  when  my  heart  knew  no 
care,  and  after  that  then  there  was  the  official  landing  of  Lady 
Jales  Casemate,  in  the  year  of  the  flood  1132  S.O.S.,  and  the 
christening  of  Queen  Baltersby,  the  Fourth  Buzzersbee,  accord- 
ing to  Her  Grace  the  bishop  Senior,  off  the  whate  shape,  and 
then  there  was  the  drowning  of  Pharoah  and  all  his  pedestrians 
and  they  were  all  completely  drowned  into  the  sea,  the  red  sea, 
and  then  poor  Merkin  Cornyngwham,  the  official  out  of  the 
castle  on  pension,  when  he  was  completely  drowned  off  Erin 
Isles,  at  that  time,  suir  knows,  in  the  red  sea  and  a  lovely 
mourning  paper  and  thank  God,  as  Saman  said,  there  were  no 
more  of  him.  And  that  now  was  how  it  was.  The  arzurian  deeps 
o'er  his  humbodumbones  sweeps.  And  his  widdy  the  giddy  is 
wreathing  her  murmoirs  as  her  gracest  triput  to  the  Grocery 
Trader's  Manthly.  Mind  mand  gunfree  by  Gladeys  Rayburn! 
Runtable's  Reincorporated.  The  new  world  presses.  Where  the 

387 


old  conk  cruised  now  croons  the  yunk.  Exeunc  throw  a  darras 
Kram  of  Llawnroc,  ye  gink  guy,  kirked  into  yord.  Enterest  at- 
tawonder  Wehpen,  luftcat  revol,  fairescapading  in  his  natsirt. 
Tuesy  tumbles.  And  mild  aunt  Liza  is  as  loose  as  her  neese.  Ful- 
fest  withim  inbrace  behent.  As  gent  would  deem  oncontinent. 
So  mulct  per  wenche  is  Elsker  woed.  Ne  hath  his  thrysting.  Fin. 
Like  the  newcasters  in  their  old  plyable  of  A  Royenne  Devours. 
Jazzaphoney  and  Mirillovis  and  Nippy  she  nets  best.  Fing.  Ay, 
ay!  Sobbos.  And  so  he  was.  Sabbus. 

Marcus.  And  after  that,  not  forgetting,  there  was  the  Flemish 
armada,  all  scattered,  and  all  officially  drowned,  there  and  then,  on 
a  lovely  morning,  after  the  universal  flood,  at  about  aleven  thirty- 
two  was  it.^  off  the  coast  of  Cominghome  and  Saint  Patrick,  the 
anabaptist,  and  Saint  Kevin,  the  lacustrian,  with  toomuch  of  tolls 
and  lottance  of  beggars,  after  converting  Porterscout  and  Dona, 
our  first  marents,  and  Lapoleon,  the  equestrian,  on  his  whuite 
bourse  of  Hunover,  rising  Clunkthurf  over  Cabinhogan  and  all 
they  remembored  and  then  there  was  the  Frankish  floot  of  Noahs- 
dobahs,  from  Hedalgoland,  round  about  the  freebutter  year  of 
Notre  Dame  1132  P.P.O.  or  so,  disumbunking  from  under 
Motham  General  Bonaboche,  (noo  poopery!)  in  his  half  a  grey 
traditional  hat,  alevoila  come  alevilla,  and  after  that  there  he  was, 
so  terrestrial,  like  a  Nailscissor,  poghuing  her  scandalous  and  very 
wrong,  the  maid,  in  single  combat,  under  the  sycamores,  amid 
the  bludderings  from  the  boom  and  all  the  gallowsbirds  in  Arrah- 
na-Poghue,  so  silvestrious,  neer  the  Queen's  Colleges,  in  1132 
Brian  or  Bride  street,  behind  the  century  man  on  the  door.  And 
then  again  they  used  to  give  the  grandest  gloriaspanquost  univer- 
sal howldmoutherhibbert  lectures  on  anarxaquy  out  of  doxarch- 
ology  (hello,  Hibernia!)  from  sea  to  sea  (Matt  speaking!)  accord- 
ing to  the  pictures  postcard,  with  sexon  grimmacticals,  in  the 
Latimer  Roman  history,  of  Latimer  repeating  himself,  from  the 
vicerine  of  Lord  Hugh,  the  Lacytynant,  till  Bockleyshuts  the  rah- 
jahn  gerachknell  and  regnumrockery  roundup,  (Marcus  Lyons 
speaking!)  to  the  oceanfuls  of  collegians  green  and  high  classes 
and  the  poor  scholars  and  all  the  old  trinitarian  senate  and  saints  and 

388 


I 


I 


II 


sages  and  the  Plymouth  brethren,  droning  along,  peanzanzangan, 
and  nodding  and  sleeping  away  there,  like  forgetmenots,  in  her 
abijance  service,  round  their  twelve  tables,  per  pioja  at  pulga 
bollas,  in  the  four  trinity  colleges,  for  earnasyoulearning  Erin- 
growback,  of  Ulcer,  Moonster,  Leanstare  and  Cannought,  the 
four  grandest  colleges  supper  the  matther  of  Erryn,  of  Killorcure 
and  Killthemall  and  Killeachother  and  Killkelly-on-the-Flure, 
where  their  role  was  to  rule  the  round  roll  that  Rollo  and  Rullo 
rolled  round.  Those  were  the  grandest  gynecollege  histories 
(Lucas  calling,  hold  the  line!)  in  the  Janesdanes  Lady  Anders- 
daughter  Universary,  for  auld  acquaintance  sake  (this  unitarian 
lady,  breathtaking  beauty,  Bambam's  bonniest,  lived  to  a  great 
age  at  or  in  or  about  the  late  No.  1 132  or  No.  1 169,  bis,  Fitzmary 
Round  where  she  was  seen  by  many  and  widely  liked)  for  teach- 
ing the  Fatima  Woman  history  of  FatimiHafamilias,  repeating  her- 
self, on  which  purposeth  of  the  spirit  of  nature  as  difinely  deve- 
loped in  time  by  psadatepholomy,  the  past  and  present  (Johnny 
MacDougall  speaking,  give  me  trunks,  miss!)  and  present  and 
absent  and  past  and  present  and  perfect  arma  virumque  romano,  ^^^Lj^ 
Ah,  dearo,  dear!  O  weep  for  the  hower  when  eve  aleaves  bower! 
How  it  did  but  all  come  eddaying  back  to  them,  if  they  did  but 
get  gaze,  gagagniagnian,  to  hear  him  there,  kiddling  and  cuddling 
her,  after  the  gouty  old  galahat,  with  his  peer  of  quinnyfears  and 
his  troad  of  thirstuns,  so  nefarious,  from  his  elevation  of  one 
yard  one  handard  and  thartytwo  lines,  before  the  four  of  us,  in 
his  Roman  Catholic  arms,  while  his  deepseepeepers  gazed  and 
sazed  and  dazecrazemazed  into  her  dullokbloon  rodolling  olo- 
sheen  eyenbowls  by  the  Cornelius  Nepos,  Mnepos.  Anumque, 
umque.  Napoo. 
Queh.^  Quos? 

Ah,  dearo  dearo  dear!  Bozun  braceth  brythe  hwen  gooses 
gandered  gamen.  Mahazar  ag  Dod!  It  was  so  scalding  sorry  for  all 
the  whole  twice  two  four  of  us,  with  their  familiar,  making  the  toten, 
and  Lally  when  he  lost  part  of  his  half  a  hat  and  all  belongings  to 
him,  in  his  old  futile  manner,  cape,  towel  and  drawbreeches,  and 
repeating  himself  and  telling  him  now,  for  the  seek  of  Senders 

389 


Newslaters  and  the  mossacre  of  Saint  Brices,  to  forget  the  past, 
when  the  burglar  he  shoved  the  wretch  in  chumeroil,  and  con- 
tradicting all  about  Lally,  the  ballest  master  of  Gosterstown,  and 
his  old  fellow,  the  Lagener,  in  the  Locklane  Lighthouse,  earing  his 
wick  with  a  pierce  of  railing,  and  liggen  hig  with  his  ladder  up,  and 
that  oldtime  turner  and  his  sadderday  erely  cloudsing,  the  old 
croniony,  Skelly,  with  the  lether  belly,  full  of  neltts,  full  of  keltts, 
full  of  lightweight  beltts  and  all  the  bald  drakes  or  ever  he  had  up 
in  the  bohereen,offArtsichekes  Road,  with  Moels  and  Mahmullagh 
Mullarty,  the  man  in  the  Oran  mosque,  and  the  old  folks  at  home 
and  Duignan  and  Lapole  and  the  grand  confarreation,  as  per  the 
cabbangers  richestore,  of  the  filest  archives,  and  he  couldn't  stop 
laughing  over  Tom  Tim  Tarpey,  the  Welshman,  and  the  four 
middleaged  widowers,  all  nangles,  sangles,  angles  and  wangles. 
And  now,  that  reminds  me,  not  to  forget  the  four  of  the  Welsh 
waves,  leaping  laughing,  in  their  Lumbag  Walk,  over  old  Battle- 
shore  and  Deaddleconch,  in  their  half  a  Roman  hat,  with  an  an- 
cient Greek  gloss  on  it,  in  Chichester  College  auction  and,  thank 
God,  they  were  all  summarily  divorced,  four  years  before,  or  so 
they  say,  by  their  dear  poor  shehusbands,  in  dear  byword  days, 
and  never  brought  to  mind,  to  see  no  more  the  rainwater  on  the 
floor  but  still  they  parted,  raining  water  laughing,  per  Nupiter 
Privius,  only  terpary,  on  the  best  of  terms  and  be  forgot,  whilk  was 
plainly  foretolk  by  their  old  pilgrim  cocklesong  or  they  were  sing- 
ing through  the  wettest  indies  As  I  was  going  to  Burrymecarott  we 
fell  in  with  a  lout  hy  the  name  of  Peebles  as  also  in  another  place  by 
their  orthodox  proverb  so  there  was  said  thus  That  old  fellow 
knows  milk  though  he's  not  used  to  it  latterly.  And  so  they  parted. 
In  Dalkymont  nember  to.  Ay,  ay.  The  good  go  and  the  wicked 
is  left  over.  As  evil  flows  so  Ivel  flows.  Ay,  ay.  Ah,  well  sure, 
that's  the  way.  As  the  holymaid  of  Kunut  said  to  the  haryman 
of  Koombe.  For  his  humple  pesition  in  odvices.  Woman.  Squash. 
Part.  Ay,  ay.  By  decree  absolute. 

Lucas.  And,  O  so  well  they  could  remembore  at  that  time,  when 
Carpery  of  the  Goold  Fins  was  in  the  kingship  of  Poolland,  Mrs 
Dowager  Justice  Squalchman,  foorsitter,  in  her  fullbottom  wig 

390 


and  beard,  (Erminia  Reginial)  in  or  aring  or  around  about  die 
year  of  buy  in  disgrace  1132  or  1169  or  1768  Y.W.C.A.,  at  the 
Married  Male  Familyman's  Auctioneer's  court  in  Arrahnacuddle. 
Poor  Johnny  of  the  clan  of  the  Dougals,  the  poor  Scuitsman, 
(Hohannes !)  nothing  if  not  amorous,  dinna  forget,  so  frightened 
(Zweep!  Zweep!)  on  account  of  her  full  bottom,  (undullable 
attraxity!)  that  put  the  yearl  of  mercies  on  him,  and  the  four 
maasters,  in  chors,  with  a  hing  behangd  them,  because  he  was 
so  slow  to  borstel  her  schoon  for  her,  when  he  was  grooming  her 
ladyship,  instead  of  backscratching  her  materfamilias  proper,  Hke 
any  old  methodist,  and  all  divorced  and  innasense  interdict,  in 
the  middle  of  the  temple,  according  to  their  dear  faithful.  Ah,  now, 
it  was  too  bad,  too  bad  and  stout  entirely,  all  the  missoccurs;  and 
poor  Mark  or  Marcus  Bowandcoat,  from  the  brownesberrow  in 
nolandsland,  the  poor  old  chronometer,  all  persecuted  with  ally 
croaker  by  everybody,  by  decree  absolute,  through  Herrinsilde, 
