and  just  arguing  friendlylike  at  the  Doddercan  Easehouse  having 
a  wee  chatty  with  our  hosty  in  his  comfy  estably  over  the  old 
middlesex  party  and  his  moral  turps,  meaning  flu,  pock,  pox 
and  mizzles,  grip,  gripe,  gleet  and  sprue,  caries,  rabies,  numps 
and  dumps.  What  me  and  Frisky  in  our  concensus  and  the  whole 
douBle~"^gscrew  of  suscribers,  notto  say  the  burman,  having 
successfully  concluded  our  tour  of  bifeel,  wants  to  know  is  thisa- 
here.  Supposing,  for  an  ethical  fict,  him,  which  the  findings 
showed,  to  have  taken  his  epscene  licence  before  the  norsect's 
divisional  respectively  as  regards  them  male  privates  and  or 
concomitantly  with  all  common  or  neuter  respects  to  them 

523 


public  exess  females,  whereas  allbeit  really  sweet  fillies,  as  was 
very  properly  held  by  the  metropolitan  in  connection  with  this 
regrettable  nuisance,  touching  arbitrary  conduct,  being  in  strict 
contravention  of  schedule  in  board  of  forests  and  works  bylaws 
regulationing  sparkers'  and  succers'  amusements  section  of  our 
beloved  naturpark  in  pursuance  of  which  police  agence  me  and 
Shorty  have  approached  a  reverend  gentlman  of  the  name  of 
Mr  Coppinger  with  reference  to  a  piece  of  fire  fittings  as  was 
most  obliging,  'pon  my  sam,  in  this  matter  of  his  explanations 
affirmative,  negative  and  limitative,  given  to  me  and  Shorty, 
touching  what  the  good  book  says  of  toooldaisymen,  concerning 
the  merits  of  early  bisectualism,  besides  him  citing  from  approved 
lectionary  example  given  by  a  valued  friend  of  the  name  of  Mr 
J.  P.  Cockshott,  reticent  of  England,  as  owns  a  pretty  maisonette, 
Quis  ut  DeuSy  fronting  on  to  the  Soussex  Bluffs  as  was  telling  us 
categoric  how  Mr  Cockshott,  as  he  had  his  assignation  with, 
present  holder  by  deedpoll  and  indenture  of  the  swearing  belt, 
he  tells  him  hypothetic,  the  reverend  Mr  Coppinger,  hereckons 
himself  disjunctively  with  his  windwarrd  eye  up  to  a  dozen  miles 
of  a  cunifarm  school  of  herring,  passing  themselves  supernatently 
by  the  Bloater  Naze  from  twelve  and  them  mayridinghim  by  the 
silent  hour.  Butting,  charging,  bracing,  backing,  springing, 
shrinking,  swaying,  darting,  shooting,  bucking  and  sprinkling 
their  dossies  sodouscheock  with  the  twinx  of  their  taylz.  And, 
reverend,  he  says,  summat  problematical,  by  yon  socialist  sun, 
gut  me,  but  them  errings  was  as  gladful  as  Wissixy  kippers  could 
be  considering,  flipping  their  little  coppingers,  pot  em,  the  fresh 
little  flirties,  the  dirty  little  gillybrighteners,  pickle  their  spratties, 
the  little  smoky  gallockers,  and,  reverend,  says  he,  more  asser- 
titoff,  zwelf  me  Zeus,  says  he,  lettin  olfac  be  the  extench  of  the 
supperfishies,  lamme  the  curves  of  their  scaligerance  and  pesk 
the  everurge  flossity  of  their  pectoralium,  them  litde  salty  popu- 
lators,  says  he,  most  apodictic,  as  sure  as  my  briam  eggs  is  on 
cockshot  under  noose,  all  them  little  upandown  dippies  they  was 
all  of  a  libidous  pickpuckparty  and  raid  on  a  wriggolo  finsky 
doodah  in  testimonials  to  their  early  bisectualism.  Such,  he  says, 

524 


i 


is  how  the  reverend  Coppinger,  he  visualises  the  hidebound 
homelies  of  creed  crux  ethics.  Watsch  yourself  tillicately  every 
morkning  in  your  bracksullied  twilette.  The  use  of  cold  water, 
testificates  Dr  Rutty,  may  be  warmly  recommended  for  the  sug- 
jugation  of  cungunitals  loosed.  Tolloll,  schools! 

—  Tallhell  and  Barbados  wi  ye  and  your  Errian  coprulation! 
Pelagiarist!  Remonstrant  Montgomeryite !  Short  lives  to  your 
relatives!  Y'are  absexed,  so  y'are,  with  mackerglosia  and  mick- 
roocyphyllicks. 

—  Wait  now,  leixlep  !,Xscent  eggoarchicism.  I  will  take  you 
to  task.  I  don't  follow^ou  that  far  in  your  otherwise  accurate 
account.  Was  it  esox  lucius  or  salmo  ferax?  You  are  taxing  us 
into  the  driven  future,  are  you  not,  with  this  ruttymaid  fishery.'^ 

—  Lalia  Lelia  Lilia  Lulia  and  lively  lovely  Lola  Montez. 

—  Gubbernathor !  That  they  say  is  a  fenian  on  the  secret. 
Named  Parasol  Irelly.  Spawning  ova  and  fry  like  a  marrye 
monach  all  amanygoround  his  seven  parish  churches!  And 
peopling  the  ribald  baronies  with  dans,  oges  and  conals ! 

—  Lift  it  now,  Hosty!  Hump's  your  mark!  For  a  runnymede 
landing!  A dondhering  vesh  vish^ Magnam  Carpam^QS  hit  neat  zoo.'^ 

—  There  s  an  old  psalmsobbing  lax  salmoner  fogeyboren  Herrin 
IHundehgwse,  ^/^ 

Who  went  floundering  with  his  boatloads  of  spermin  spunk  about. 

Leaping  freck  after  every  long  torn  and  wet  lissy  between  Howth  and 

Humbermouth. 

Our  Human  Conger  Eel! 

—  Help!  1  can  see  him  in  the  fishnoo!  Up  wi'yer  whippy! 
Hold  that  lad!  Play  him,  Markandeyn!  Bullhead! 

—  Pull  you,  sir!  Olive  quill  does  it.  Longeal  of  Malin,  he'll 
cry^  before  he's  flayed.  And  his  tear  make  newisland.  Did  a  rise.'* 
Way,  lungfush!  The  great  fin  rnay  cumule!  Three  threeth  o'er 
the  wild!  Manu  ware! 

—  He  missed  her  mouth  and  stood  into  Dee,  Romunculus 
Remus,  plying  the  rape,  so  as  now  any  bompriss's  bound  to  get 
up  her  if  he  pool  her  leg  and  bunk  on  her  butt.  No,  he  skid  like 
a  skate  and  berthed  on  her  byrnie  and  never  a  fear  but  they'll 

525 


land  him  yet,  slitheryscales  on  liffeybank,  times  and  times  and 
halve  a  time  with  a  pillow  of  sand  to  polster  him. 

—  Do  you  say  they  wilL^  ^^y-rf^  i^Uf 
— J  bet  you  they  will. 

—  Among  the  shivering  sedges  so?  Weedy  waving. 

—  Or  tulipbeds  of  Rush  below. 

—  Where  you  take  your  mugs  to  wash  after  dark? 

—  To  my  lead,  Toomey  lout.  Tommy  lad. 

—  Besides  the  bubblye  waters  of,  babblyebubblye  waters  of? 

—  Right. 

1^'^     —  Grenadiers.  And  tell  me  now.  Were  these  anglers  or  angel- 
^  ers  coexistent  and  compresent  with  or  without  their  tertium  quid? 

—  Three  in  oney  one  and  three,       \  I  j  . 
Shem  and  Shaun  and  the  shame  that  sunders  em. 
Wisdom's  son,  folly's  brother, 

—  God  bless  your  ginger,  wigglewaggle !  That's  three  slots 
and  no  burners.  You're  forgetting  the  jinnyjos  for  the  fayboys. 
What,  Walker  John  Referent?  Play  us  your  patmost!  And  un- 
packyoulloups! 

—  Naif  Cruachan!  Woe  on  woe,  says  Wardeb  Daly.  Woman 
will  water  the  wild  world  over.  And  the  maid  of  the  folley  will  go 
where  glory.  Sure  I  thought  it  was  larking  in  the  trefoil  of  the  furry 
glans  with  two  stripping  baremaids,  Stilla  Underwood  and  Moth 
MacGarry,  he  was,  hand  to  dagger,  that  time  and  their  mother,  a 
rawkneepudsfrowse,  I  was  given  to  understand,  with  superflow- 
vius  heirs,  begum.  There  was  that  one  that  was  always  mad  gone 
on  him,  her  first  king  of  cloves  and  the  most  broadcussed  man 
in  Corrack-on-Sharon,  County  Rosecarmon.  Sure  she  was  near 
drowned  in  pondest  coldstreams  of  admiration  forherself,  as  bad 
as  my  Tarpeyan  cousin,  Vesta  Tully,  making  faces  at  her  bach- 
spilled  likeness  in  the  brook  after  and  cooling  herself  in  the 
element,  she  pleasing  it,  she  praising  it,  with  salices  and  weidow- 
wehls,  all  tossed,  as  she  was,  the  playactrix,  Lough  Shieling's  love ! 

—  O,  add  shielsome  bridelittle!  All  of  her  own!  Nircississies 
are  as  the  doaters  of  inversion,  Secilas  through  their  laughing 
classes  becoming  poolermates  in  laker  life. 

J26 


—  It  seems  to  same  with  Iscappellas?  Ys?  Gotellus!  A  tickey  (^^^^^ 
for  tie  taughts!     ^q^Lo  ^  ^^^"^^ 

.  — Listenest,  meme  mearest!  They  were  harrowd,  those  fin- 
^  ^^'"^ weeds!  Come,  rest  in  this  bosom!  So  sorry  you  lost  him,  poor 
lamb!  Of  course  I  know  you  are  a  viry  vikid  girl  to  go  in  the 
MO  e  drcemplace  and  at  that  time  of  the  draym  and  it  was  a  very  wrong 
thing  to  do,  even  under  the  dark  flush  of  night,  dare  all  grand- 
passia!  He's  gone  on  his  bombashaw.  Through  geesing  and  so 
pleasing  at  Strip  Teasy  up  the  stairs.  The  boys  on  the  corner  were 
talking  too.  And  your  soreful  miseries  first  come  on  you.  Still  to 
forgive  it,  divine  my  lickle  wiffey,  and  everybody  knows  you  do 
Mook  lovely  in  your  invinsibles,  Eulogia,  a  perfect  apposition  with  ^"^'Sl 
the  coldcream,  Assoluta,  from  Boileau's  I  always  use  in  the  wards 
after  I  am  burned  a  rich  egg  and  derive  the  greatest  benefit, 
sign  of  the  cause.  My,  you  do!  Simply  adorable!  Could  I  but 
pass  my  hands  some,  my  hands  through,  thine  hair!  So  vicky- 
vicky  veritiny!  O  Fronces,  say  howdyedo,  Dotty!  Chic  hands. 
The  way  they  curve  there  under  nue  charmeen  cuffs !  I  am  more 
divine  like  that  when  Fve  two  of  everything  up  to  boyproof 
knicks.  Winning  in  a  way,  only  my  arms  are  whiter,  dear. 
Blanchemain,  idler.  Fairhair,  frail  one.  Listen,  meme  sweety!  O 
be  joyfold!  Mirror  do  justice,  taper  of  ivory,  heart  of  the  cona- 
vent,  hoops  of  gold !  My  veil  will  save  it  undyeing  from  his  ether- 
nal  fire!  It's  rneemly  us  two,  meme  idoll.  Of  course  it  was  down- 
right verry  wickred  of  him,  reely  meeting  me  disguised,  Bortolo 
mio,  peerfectly  appealling,  D.V.,  with  my  lovebirds,  my  colom- 
binas.  Their  sinsitives  shrinked.  Even  Netta  and  Linda,  our  seeyu 
tities  and  they've  sin  sumtim,  tankus!  My  rillies  were  liebeneaus, 
my  aftscents  embre.  How  me  adores  eatsother  simply  (Mon  ishe- 
beau!  Ma  reinebelle !),  in  his  storm  collar,  as  I  leaned  yestreen 
from  his  muskished  labs,  even  my  little  pom  got  excited,  when  I 
turned  his  head  on  his  same  manly  bust  and  kissed  him  more. 
Only  he  might  speak  to  a  person,  lord  so  picious,  taking  up  my 
worths  ill  wrong!  May  I  introduce!  This  is  my  futuous,  lips  and 
looks  lovelast.  Still  me  with  you,  you  poor  chilled !  Will  make  it 
up  with  mother  Concepcion  and  a  glorious  lie  between  us, 

527 


sweetness,  so  as  not  a  novene  in  all  the  convent  loretos,  not  my 
littlest  one  of  all,  for  mercy's  sake  need  ever  know,  what  passed 
our  lips  or.  Yes  sir,  we'll  will  I  Clothea  wind !  Fee  o  fie  I  Covey  us 
niced!  Bansh  the  dread!  Alitten's  looking.  Low  him  lovly!  Make 
me  feel  good  in  the  moontime.  It  will  all  take  bloss  as  oranged  at 
St  Audiens  rosan  chocolate  chapelry  with  my  diamants  blickfeast 
after  at  minne  owned  hos  for  all  the  catclub  to  go  cryzy  and 
Father  Blesius  Mindelsinn  will  be  beminding  hand.  Kyrielle  ela- 
tion! Crystal  elation!  Kyrielle  elation!  Elation  immanse!  Sing  to 
us,  sing  to  us,  sing  to  us!  Amam!  So  meme  nearest,  languished 
hister,  be  free  to  me!  (Fm  fading!)  And  listen,  you,  you  beauty, 
esster,  Fll  be  clue  to  who  knows  you,  pray  Magda,  Marthe  with 
Luz  and  Joan,  while  I  lie  with  warm  lisp  on  the  Tolka.  (Fm  fay!) 

—  Eusapia!  Fais-le,  tout-tait!  Languishing  hysteria.'^  The  clou 
historique.'^  How  is  this  at  all.^  Is  dads  the  thing  in  such  or  are 
tits  the  that.'^  Hear  we  here  her  first  poseproem  of  suora  unto 
suora.'^  Alicious,  twinstreams  twinestraines,  through  alluring 
glass  or  alas  in  jumboland.'^  Ding  dong!  Where's  your  pal  in 
silks  alustre?  Think  of  a  maiden,  Presentacion.  Double  hjr,  An- 
nupciacion.  Take  your  first  thoughts  away  from  her,  Immacola- 
cion.  Knock  and  it  shall  appall  unto  you!  Who  shone  yet  shim- 
mers will  be  e'er  scheining.  Cluse  her,  voil  her,  hild  her  hindly. 
After  liryc  and  themodius  soft  agio  iris  of  the  vals.  This  young 
barlady,  what,  euphemiasly.'*  Is  she  having  an  ambidual  act  her- 
self in  apparition  with  herself  as  Consuelas  to  Sonias  may.'^ 

—  Dang!  And  tether,  a  loguy  O! 

—  Dis  and  dat  and  dese  and  dose !  Your  crackling  out  of  your 
turn,  my  Moonster  firefly,  like  always.  And  2  R.N.  and  Long- 
horns  Connacht,  stay  off  my  air!  You've  grabbed  the  capital  and 
you've  had  the  lion's  shire  since  1542  but  there's  all  the  difference 
in  Ireland  between  your  borderation,  my  chatty  cove,  and  me.  The 
leinstrel  boy  to  the  wall  is  gone  and  there's  moreen  astoreen  for 
Monn  and  Conn.  With  the  tyke's  named  moke.  Doggymens' 
nimmer  win!  You  last  led  the  first  when  we  last  but  we'll  first 
trump  your  last  with  a  lasting.  Jump  the  railchairs  or  take  them, 
as  you  please,  but  and,  sir,  my  queskins  first,  foxyjack!  Ye've  as 
much  skullabogue  cheek  on  you  now  as  would  boil  a  caldron  of 

528 


I 


kalebrose.  Did  the  market  missioners  Hayden  Wombwell,  when 
given  the  raspberry,  fine  more  than  sandsteen  per  cent  of  chalk 
in  the  purity,  promptitude  and  perfection  flour  of  this  raw 
materialist  and  less  than  a  seventh  pro  mile  in  his  meal?  We 
bright  young  chaps  of  the  brandnew  braintrust  are  briefed  here 
and  with  maternal  sanction  compellably  empanelled  at  quarter 
sessions  under  the  six  disqualifications  for  the  uniformication  of 
young  persons  (Nodding  Neutrals)  removal  act  by  Committal- 
man  Number  Underfifteen  to  know  had  the  peeress  of  generals, 
who  have  been  getting  nose  money  cheap  and  stirring  up  the 
public  opinion  about  private  balls  with  their  legs.  Misses  Mirtha 
and  Merry,  the  two  dreeper's  assistents,  had  they  their  service 
books  in  order  and  duly  signed  J.  H.  North  and  Company  when 
discharged  from  their  last  situations?  Will  ye  gup  and  tell  the 
board  in  the  anterim  how,  in  the  name  of  the  three  tailors  on 
Tooley  Street,  did  O'Bejorumsen  or  Mockmacmahonitch,  ex  of 
Butt  and  Hocksett's,  violating  the  bushel  standard,  come  into 
awful  position  of  the  barrel  of  bellywash?  And  why,  is  it  any  harm 
to  ask,  was  this  hackney  man  in  the  coombe,  a  papersalor  with 
a  whiteluke  to  him,  Fauxfitzhuorson,  collected  from  Manofisle, 
carrying  his  ark,  of  eggshaped  fuselage  and  made  in  Fredborg 
into  the  bullgine,  across  his  back  when  he  might  have  been 
setting  on  his  jonass  inside  like  a  Glassthure  cabman?  Where 
were  the  doughboys,  three  by  nombres,  won  in  ziel,  cavehill 
exers  or  hearts  of  steel,  Hansen,  Morfydd  and  O'Dyar,  V.D., 
with  their  glenagearries  directing  their  steps  according  to  the 
R.U.C's  liaison  officer,  with  their  trench  ulcers  open  and 
their  hands  in  their  pockets,  contrary  to  military  rules,  when 
confronted  with  his  lifesize  obstruction?  When  did  he  live  off 
rooking  the  pooro  and  how  did  start  pfuffpfaffing  at  his  Paterson 
and  Hellicott's?  Is  it  a  factual  fact,  proved  up  to  scabsteethshilt, 
that  this  fancydress  nordic  in  shaved  lamb  breeches,  child's  kilts, 
bibby  buntings  and  Wellingtons,  with  club,  tore  and  headdress, 
preholder  of  the  Bar  Ptolomei,  is  coowner  of  a  hengster's  circus 
near  North  Great  Denmark  Street  (incidentally,  it's  the  most 
unjoyable  show  going  the  province  and  Fm  taking  the  youngsters 

529 


there  Saturday  first  when  it's  halfprice  naturals  night  to  see  the 
fallensickners  aping  the  buckleybackers  and  the  blind  to  two 
worlds  taking  ofF  the  defFydowndummies)  and  the  shamshem- 
showman  has  been  complaining  to  the  police  barracks  and 
applying  for  an  order  of  certiorari  and  crying  out  something  vile 
about  him  being  molested,  after  him  having  triplets,  by  offers  of 
vacancies  from  females  in  this  city,  neighing  after  the  man  and  his 
outstanding  attraction  ever  since  they  seen  his  X  ray  picture  turned 
out  in  wealthy  red  in  the  sabbath  sheets?  Was  it  him  that  suborned 
that  surdumutual  son  of  his,  a  litterydistributer  in  Saint  Patrick's 
Lavatory,  to  turn  a  Roman  and  leave  the  chayr  and  gout  in  his 
bare  balbriggans,  the  sweep,  and  buy  the  usual  jar  of  porter  at 
the  Morgue  and  Cruses  and  set  it  down  before  the  wife  with  her 
fireman's  halmet  on  her,  bidding  her  mine  the  hoose,  the  strum- 
pet, while  him  and  his  lagenloves  were  rampaging  the  roads  in 
all  their  paroply  under  the  noses  of  the  Heliopolitan  constabu- 
lary? Can  you  beat  it?  Prepare  the  way!  Where's  that  gendarm 
auxiliar,  arianautic  sappertillery,  that  reported  on  the  whole  hood- 
lum, relying  on  his  morse-erse  wordybook  and  the  trunchein  up 
his  tail?  Roof  Seckesign  van  der  Deckel  and  get  her  story  from 
him !  Recall  Sickerson,  the  lizzyboy !  Seckersen,  magnon  of  Errick. 
Sackerson!  Hookup! 

—  Day  shirker  four  vanfloats  he  verdants  market. 
High  liquor  made  lust  torpid  dough  hunt  her  orchid, 

—  Hunt  her  orchid!  Gob  and  he  found  it  on  her  right  enough! 
With  her  shoes  upon  his  shoulders,  'twas  most  trying  to  be- 
holders when  he  upped  their  frullatuUepleats  with  our  warning. 
A  disgrace  to  the  homely  protestant  religion!  Bloody  old  pre- 
adamite  with  his  twohandled  umberella!  Trust  me  to  spy  on  me 
own  spew! 

—  Wallpurgies !  And  it's  this's  your  deified  city?  Norganson? 
And  it's  we's  to  pray  for  Bigmesser's  conversions?  Call  Kitty  the 
Beads,  the  Mandame  of  Tipknock  Castle !  Let  succuba  succumb,  the 
improvable  his  wealth  made  possible!  He's  cookinghagar  that  rost 
her  prayer  to  him  upon  the  top  of  the  stairs.  She's  deep,  that  one. 

—  A  farternoiser  for  his  tuckish  armenities.  Ouhr  Former 

530 


[ 


who  erred  in  having  down  to  gibbous  disdag  our  darling  breed. 
And  then  the  confisieur  for  the  boob's  indulligence.  As  sunctioned 
for  his  salmenbog  by  the  Councillors-om-Trent.  Pave  Pannem 
at  his  gaiter's  bronze!  Nummer  half  dreads  Log  Laughty.  Mas- 
ter's gunne  he  warrs  the  bedst.  I  messaged  his  dilltoyds  sause- 
pander  mussels  on  the  kisschen  table.  With  my  ironing  duck 
through  his  rollpins  of  gansyfett,  do  dodo  doughdy  dough,  till 
he  was  braising  red  in  the  toastface  with  lovensoft  eyebulbs  and 
his  kiddledrum  steeming  and  rattling  like  the  roasties  in  my 
mockamill.  I  awed  to  have  scourched  his  Abarm's  brack  for  him. 
For  the  loaf  of  Obadiah,  take  your  pastryart's  noas  out  of  me 
flouer  bouckuet!  Of  the  strainger  scene  you  given  squeezers  to 
me  skillet!  As  cream  of  the  hearth  thou  reinethst  alhome.  His 
lapper  and  libbers  was  glue  goulewed  as  he  sizzled  there  watch- 
ing me  lautterick's  pitcher  by  Wexford-Atelier  as  Katty  and 
Lanner,  the  refined  souprette,  with  my  bust  alia  brooche  and  the 
padbun  under  my  matelote,  showing  my  jigotty  sleeves  and  all 
my  new  toulong  touloosies.  Whisk!  There's  me  shims  and  here's 
me  hams  and  this  is  me  juppettes,  gause  be  the  meter!  Whisk! 
What's  this.^  Whisk!  And  that.^  He  never  cotched  finer,  balay 
me,  at  Romiolo  Frullini's  flea  pantamine  out  of  Griddle-the-Sink 
or  Shusies-with-her-Soles-Up  or  La  Sauzerelly,  the  pucieboots, 
when  I  started  so  hobmop  ladlelike,  highty  tighty,  to  kick  the 
time  off  the  cluckclock  lucklock  quamquam  camcam  potapot 
panapan  kickakickkack.  Hairhorehounds,  shake  up  pfortner. 
Fuddling  fun  for  Fullacan's  sake! 

—  All  halt!  Sponsor  programme  and  close  down.  That's 
enough,  genral,  of  finicking  about  Finnegan  and  fiddling  with 
his  faddles.  A  final  ballot,  guvnor,  to  remove  all  doubt.  By  sylph 
and  salamander  and  all  the  trolls  and  tritons,  I  mean  to  top  her 
drive  and  to  tip  the  tap  of  this,  at  last.  His  thoughts  that  wouldbe 
words,  his  livings  that  havebeen  deeds.  And  will  too,  by  the  holy 
child  of  Coole,  primapatriock  of  the  archsee,  if  I  have  at  first 
to  down  every  mask  in  Trancenania  from  Terreterry's  Hole  to 
Stutterers'  Corner  to  find  that  YokeofF  his  letter,  this  Yokan  his 
dahet.  Pass  the  jousters  of  the  king,  the  Kovnor-Journal  and 

531 


eirenarch's  custos  himself  no  less,  the  meg  of  megs,  with  the  Garri- 
son old  gang!  Off  with  your  persians!  Search  ye  the  Finn!  The 
sinder's  under  shriving  sheet.  Fa  Fe  Fi  Fo  Fum!  Ho,  croak, 
evildoer!  Arise,  sir  ghostus!  As  long  as  youVe  lived  there'll  be  no 
other.  Doff! 

—  Amtsadam,  sir,  to  you!  Eternest  cittas,  heil!  Here  we  are 
again !  I  am  bubub  brought  up  under  a  camel  act  of  dynasties  long 
out  of  print,  the  first  of  Shitric  Shilkanbeard  (or  is  it  Owllaugh 
MacAuscullpth  the  Thord.'^),  but,  in  pontofacts  massimust,  I  am 
known  throughout  the  world  wherever  my  good  Allenglisches 
Angleslachsen  is  spoken  by  Sail  and  Will  from  Augustanus  to 
Ergastulus,  as  this  is,  whether  in  Farnum's  rath  or  Condra's 
ridge  or  the  meadows  of  Dalkin  or  Monkish  tunshep,  by  saints 
and  sinners  eyeeye  alike  as  a  cleanliving  man  and,  as  a  matter  of 
fict,  by  my  halfwife,  I  think  how  our  public  at  large  appreciates 
it  most  highly  from  me  that  I  am  as  cleanliving  as  could  be  and 
that  my  game  was  a  fair  average  since  I  perpetually  kept  my 
ouija  ouija  wicket  up.  On  my  verawife  I  never  was  nor  can  afford 
to  be  guilty  of  crim  crig  con  of  malfeasance  trespass  against  par- 
son with  the  person  of  a  youthful  gigirl  frifrif  friend  chirped 
Apples,  acted  by  Miss  Dashe,  and  with  Any  of  my  cousines  in 
Kissilov's  Slutsgartern  or  Gigglotte's  Hill,  when  I  would  touch 
to  her  dot  and  feel  most  greenily  of  her  unripe  ones  as  it  should 
prove  most  anniece  and  far  too  bahad,  nieceless  to  say,  to  my 
reputation  on  Babbyl  Malket  for  daughters-in-trade  being  lightly 
clad.  Yet,  as  my  acquainters  do  me  the  complaisance  of  apprising 
me,  I  should  her  have  awristed  under  my  duskguise  of  whippers 
through  toombs  and  deempeys,  lagmen,  was  she  but  tinkling  of 
such  a  tink.  And,  as  a  mere  matter  of  ficfect,  I  tell  of  myself  how 
I  popo  possess  the  ripest  littlums  wifukie  around  the  globelettes 
globes  upon  which  she  was  romping  off  on  Floss  Mundai  out  of 
haram's  way  round  Skinner's  circusalley  first  with  her  consola- 
tion prize  in  my  serial  dreams  of  faire  women,  Mannequins  Passe, 
with  awards  in  figure  and  smile  subsections,  handicapped  by  two 
breasts  in  operatops,  a  remarkable  little  endowment  garment. 
Fastened  at  various  places.  What  spurt!  I  kickkick  keenly  love 

53^ 


i 


I 


I 


such,  particularly  while  savouring  of  their  flavours  at  their  most 
perfect  best  when  served  with  heliotrope  ayelips,  as  this  is,  where 
I  do  drench  my  jolly  soul  on  the  pu  pure  beauty  of  hers  past. 

She  is  my  bestpreserved  wholewife,  sowell  her  as  herafter,  in 
Evans's  eye,  with  incompatibly  the  smallest  shoenumber  outside 
chinatins.  They  are  jolly  dainty,  spekin  tluly.  May  we  not  recom- 
mend them?  It  was  my  proofpiece  from  my  prenticeserving. 
And,  alas,  our  private  chaplain  of  Lambeyth  and  Dolekey,  bishop- 
regionary,  an  always  sadfaced  man,  in  his  lutestring  pewcape  with 
tabinet  band,  who  has  visited  our  various  hard  hearts  and  reins 
by  imposition  of  fufuf  fingers,  olso  haddock's  fumb,  in  that 
Upper  Room  can  speak  loud  to  you  some  quite  complimentary 
things  about  my  clean  charactering,  even  when  detected  in  the 
dark,  distressful  though  such  recital  prove  to  me,  as  this  is,  when 
I  introduced  her  (Frankfurters,  numborines,  why  drive  fear?)  to 
our  fourposter  tunies  chantreying  under  Castrucci  Sinior  and  De 
Mellos,  those  whapping  oldsteirs,  with  sycamode  euphonium  in 
either  notation  in  our  altogether  cagehaused  duckyheim  on 
Goosna  Greene,  that  cabinteeny  homesweetened  through  affec- 
tion's hoardpayns  (First  Murkiss,  or  so  they  sankeyed.  Dodo!  O 
Clearly!  And  Gregorio  at  front  with  Johannes  far  in  back.  Aw, 
aw!),  gleeglom  there's  gnome  sweepplaces  like  theresweep  No- 
whergs.  By  whom,  as  my  Kerk  Findlater's,  ye  litel  chuch  rond 
ye  coner,  and  K.  K.  Katakasm  enjoineth  in  the  Belief  and,  as  you 
all  know,  of  a  child,  dear  Humans,  one  of  my  life's  ambitions  of 
my  youngend  from  an  early  peepee  period  while  still  to  hedje- 
skool,  intended  for  broadchurch,  I,  being  fully  alive  to  it,  was 
parruchially  confirmed  in  Caulofat's  bed  by  our  bujibuji  beloved 
curate-author.  Michael  Engels  is  your  man.  Let  Michael  relay 
Sutton  and  tell  you  people  here  who  have  the  phoney  habit  (it 
was  remarketable)  in  his  clairaudience,  as  this  is,  as  only  our  own 
Michael  can,  when  reicherout  at  superstation,  to  bring  ruptures 
to  our  roars  how  I  am  amp  amp  amplify.  Hiemlancollin.  Pim- 
pim's  Ornery  forninehalf.  Shaun  Shemsen  saywhen  saywhen. 
Holmstock  unsteaden.  Livpoomark  lloyrge  hoggs  one  four  tupps 
noying.  Big  Butter  Boost!  Sorry!  Thnkyou!  Thatll  beall  for- 

533 


tody.  Cal  it  off.  Godnotch,  vryboily.  End  a  muddy  crushmess! 
Abbreciades  anew  York  gustoms.  Kyow!  Tak. 

—  Tiktak.  Tikkak. 

—  Awind  abuzz  awater  falling. 

—  Poor  a  CO  we  his  jew  placator.     J^<,^  li  i  4  4^ 

—  It*s  the  damp  damp  damp. 

—  Calm  has  entered.  Big  big  Calm,  announcer.  It  is  most 
ernst  terooly  a  moresome  intartenment.  Colt's  tooth!  I  will  give 
tandsel  to  it.  I  protest  there  is  luttrelly  not  one  teaspoonspill  of 
evidence  at  bottomlie  to  my  babad,  as  you  shall  see,  as  this  is. 
Keemun  Lapsang  of  first  pickings.  And  I  contango  can  take  off 
my  dudud  dirtynine  articles  of  quoting  here  in  Pynix  Park  be- 
fore those  in  heaven  to  provost  myself,  by  gramercy  of  justness, 
I  mean  veryman  and  moremon,  stiff  and  staunch  for  ever,  and 
enter  under  the  advicies  from  Misrs  Norris,  Southby,  Yates  and 
Weston,  Inc,  to  their  favoured  client,  into  my  preprotestant  caveat 
against  the  pupup  publication  of  libel  by  any  tixtim  tipsyloon  or 
tobtomtowley  of  Keisserse  Lean  (a  bloweyed  lanejoymt,  waring 
lowbelt  suit,  with  knockbrecky  kenees  and  bullfist  rings  round 
him  and  a  fallse  roude  axehand  (he  is  cunvesser  to  Saunter's 
Nocelettres  and  the  Poe's  Toffee's  Directory  in  his  pisness),  the 
best  begrudged  man  in  Belgradia  who  doth  not  belease  to  our 
paviour)  to  my  nonesuch,  that  highest  personage  at  moments 
holding  down  the  throne.  So  to  speak  of  beauty  scouts  in  elegant 
pursuit  of  flowers,  searchers  for  tabernacles  and  the  celluloid  art! 
Happen  seen  sore  eynes  belived.'^  The  caca  cad!  He  walked  by 
North  Strand  with  his  Thom's  towel  in  hand.  Snakeeye!  Strangler 
of  soffiacated  green  parrots!  I  protest  it  that  he  is,  by  my 
wipehalf.  He  was  leaving  out  of  my  double  inns  while  he  was  all 
teppling  over  my  single  ixits.  So  was  keshaned  on  for  his  recent 
behaviour.  Sherlpok  is  lorking  for  him.  Allare  beltspanners. 
Get  your  air  curZTshame  upon  Private  M!  Shames  on  his  ful- 
someness!  Shartius  on  his  atkinscum's  lulul  lying  suulen  for  an 
outcast  mastiff  littered  in  blood  currish!  Eristocras  till  Hanging 
Tower!  Steck  a  javelin  through  his  advowtried  heart!  Instaun- 
ton!  Flap,  my'Larrybird!  Dangle,  my  highflyer!  Jiggety  jig  my 

534 


jackadandyline!  Let  me  never  see  his  waddphez  again!  And  mine 
it  was,  Barktholed  von  Hunarig,  Soesown  of  Furrows  (hour- 
springlike  his  joussture,  immitiate  my  chry!  as  urs  now,  so  yqus^ 
.then!),  when  to  our  lot  it  fell  on  my  poplar  Sexsex,  my  Sexen- 
centaurnary,  whenby  Gate  of  Hal,  before  his  hostel  of  the  Wodin 
Man,  I  hestened  to  freeholdit  op  to  his  Mam  his  Maman,  Majus- 
cules, His  Magnus  Maggerstick,  first  city's  leasekuays  of  this 
Nova  Tara,  our  most  noble,  when  hrossbucked  on  his  pricelist 
charger,  Pferdinamd  Allibuster  (yeddonot  need  light  oar  till 
Noreway  for  you  fanned  one  o'er  every  doorway)  with  my  all- 
bum's  greethims  through  this  whole  of  my  promises,  handshakey 
congrandyoulikethems,  ecclesency. 

Whosaw  the  jackery  dares  at  handgripper  thisa  breast?  Dose 
makkers  ginger.  Some  one  we  was  with  us  all  fours.  Adversarian! 
The  spiking  Duy vil !  First  liar  in  Londsend !  Wulv !  See  you  scar- 
gore  on  that  skeepsbrow!  And  those  meisies!  Sulken  taarts!  Man 
sicker  at  I  ere  bluffet  konservative.'^  Shucks!  Such  ratshause  bugs- 
mess  so  I  cannot  barely  conceive  of!  Lowest  basemeant  in  hystry ! 
Ibscenest  nansence!  Noksagt!  Per  Peeler  and  Pawr!  The  broker- 
heartened  shugon!  Hole  affair  is  rotten  muckswinish  porcupig's 
draff.  Enouch! 

—  Is.  that  yu,  Whitehed.^^ 

—  Have  you  headnoise  now.'^ 

—  Give  us  your  mespilt  reception,  will  yous.'* 

—  Pass  the  fish  for  Christ's  sake! 

—  Old  Whitehowth iie  is  speaking  again.  Ope  Eustace  tube! 
Pity  poor  whiteg^h!  Dear  gone  mummeries,  goby!  Tell  the 
woyld  I  have  lived  true  thousand  hells.  Pity,  please,  lady,  for 
poor  O.W.  in  this  profundust  snobbing  I  have  caught.  Nine  dirty 
years  mine  age,  hairs  hoar,  mummery  failend,  snowdrift  to  my 
ellpow,  deff  as  Adder.  I  askt  you,  dear  lady,  to  judge  on  my  tree 
by  our  fruits.  I  gave  you  of  the  tree.  I  gave  two  smells,  three  eats. 
My  freeandies,  my  celeberrimates:  my  happy  bossoms,  my  all- 
falling  fruits  of  my  boom.  Pity  poor  Haveth  Childers  Every- 
whige  with  Mudder ! "^^'^ 

That  was  Communicator,  a  former  colonel.  A  disincarnated 


Spirit,  called  Sebastion,  from  the  Rivera  in  Januero,  (he  is  not 
alljhear)  may  fernspreak  shortly  with  messuages  from  my  dead- 
ported.  Let  us  cheer  him  up  a  little  and  make  an  appunkment  for 
a  future  date.  Hello,  Comrnudicate !  How's  the  buttes.'^  Ever- 
scepistic!  He  does  not  believe  in  our  psychous  of  the-JB^e^i^b- 
sence,  neither  miracle  wheat  nor  soulsurgery  of  P.(^.  ^emby. 
He  has  had  some  indiejestings,  poor  thing,  for  quite  a  little  while, 
confused  by  his  tonguer  of  baubble.  A  way  with  him !  Poor  Felix 
Culapert !  Ring  his  mind,  ye  staples,  (bonze !)  in  my  quid  reeke- 
ries'  ballyheart  and  in  my  krumlin  and  in  aroundisements  and 
stremmis!  Sacks  eleathury!  Sacks  eleathury!  Bam!  I  deplore  over 
him  ruely.  MongriefF!  O  Hone !  Guester med  with  the  nobeJities» 
to  die  bronxitic  in  achershous!  So  enjoying  of  old  thick  whiles, 
in  haute  white  toff's  hoyt  of  our  formed  reflections,  with  stock 
of  eisen  all  his  prop,  so  buckely  hosiered  from  the  Royal  Leg, 
and  his  puertos  mugnum,  he  would  puffout  a  dhymful  bock. 
And  the  how  he  would  husband  her  that  verikerfully,  his  cigare 
divane!  (He  would  redden  her  with  his  vestas,  but  'tis  naught.) 
With  us  his  nephos  and  his  neberls,  mest  incensed  and  befogged 
by  him  and  his  smoke  thereof.  But  he  shall  have  his  glad  stein  of 
our  zober  beerbest  in  Oscarshal's  winetavern.  Buen  retirof  The 
boyce  voyce  is  still  flautish  and  his  mounth  still  wears  that 
soldier's  scarlet  though  the  flaxafloyeds  are  peppered  with  salse- 
dine.  It  is  bycause  of  what  he  was  ascend  into  his  prisonce  on 
account  off.  I  whit  it  wel.  Hence  his  deepraised  words.  Some  day 
I  may  tell  of  his  second  storey.  Mood !  Mood !  It  looks  like  some- 
one other  bearing  my  burdens.  I  cannot  let  it.  Kanes  nought. 

Well,  yeamen,  I  have  bared  my  whole  past,  I  flatter  myself, 
on  both  ^ides.  Give  me  even  two  months  by  laxlaw  in  second 
division  and  my  first  broadcloth  is  business  will  be  to  protest  to 
Recorder  at  Thing  of  all  Things,  or  court  of  Skivinis,  with  mar- 
chants  grey,  antient  and  credibel,  Zerobubble  Barrentone,  Jonah 
Whalley,  Determined  Codde  or  Cucumber  Upright,  my  jurats, 
jf  it  does  not  occur  again.  O  rhyme  us!  Haar  Faagher,  wild  heart 
in  Homelan;  Harrod's  be  the  naun.  Mine  kinder  come,  mine 
wohl  be  won.  There  is  nothing  like  leuther.  O  Shee!  And  nosty 

/ 

