
^  Slash-the-Pill  lifts  the  pellet.  Run,  Phoenix,  run! 

283 


J 


A  stodge  An- 
gleshman  has 
been  worked  by 
eccentricity. 


An  oxygon  is  na- 
turally reclined 
to  rest. 


Ba  be  bi  bo  bum. 


median,  hce  che  ech,  interecting  at  royde 
angles  the  parilegs  of  a  given  obtuse  one  bis- 
cuts  both  the  arcs  that  are  in  curveachord 
behind.  Brickbaths.  The  family  umbroglia. 
A  Tullagrove  pole^  to  the  Height  of  County 
Fearmanagh  has  a  septain  inclinaison^  and  the 
graphplot  for  all  the  functions  in  Lower 
County  Monachan,  whereat  samething  is  rivi- 
sible  by  nighttim,  may  be  invoked  into  the 
zeroic  couplet,  palls  pell  inhis  heventh  glike 
noughty  times  oo,  find,  if  you  are  not  literally 
cooefficient,  how  minney  combinaisies  and  per- 
mutandies  can  be  played  on  the  international 
surd!  pthwndxrclzp!,  bids  cubid  rute  being 
extructed,  taking  anan  illitterettes,ififif  at  a  tom. 
Answers,  (for  teasers  only).^  Ten,  twent,  thirt, 
see,  ex  and  three  icky  totchty  ones.  From 
solation  to  solution.  Imagine  the  twelve 
deaferended  dumbbawls  of  the  whowl  above- 
beugled  to  be  the  contonuation  through 
regeneration  of  the  urutteration  of  the  word 
in  pregross.  It  follows  that,  if  the  two  ante- 
sedents  be  bissyclitties  and  the  three  come- 
seekwenchers  trundletrikes,  then,  Aysha  Lali- 
pat  behidden  on  the  footplate,  Big  Whiggler* 
restant  upsittuponable,  the  nCr^  presents  to 
us  (tandem  year  at  lasted  length!)  an  otto- 
mantic  turquo-indaco  of  pictorial  shine  by 
pictorial  shimmer  so  long  as,  gad  of  the  gidday, 
pictorial  summer,  viridorefulvid,  lits  asheen, 


^  Dideney,  Dadeney,  Dudeney,  O,  I'd  know  that  putch  on  your  poll. 
2  That  is  tottinghim  in  his  boots. 

^  Come  all  ye  hapney  coachers  and  support  the  richview  press. 

*  Braham  Baruch  he  married  his  cook  to  Massach  McKraw  her  uncle-in- 
law  who  wedded  his  widow  to  Hjalmar  Kjaer  who  adapted  his  daughter  to 
Braham  the  Bear.  V  for  wadlock,  P  for  shift,  H  for  Lona  the  Konkubine. 

*  A  gee  is  just  a  jay  on  the  jaunts  cowsway. 

284 


Finnfinnotus  of 


.incinnatu 


nirthurgink' s 

lussies  and 
^verguins  men. 


Jomdenombres/ 
'he  balbearians. 


but  (lenz  alack  lends  a  lot),  if  this  habby  cyclic 
erdor  be  outraciously  enviolated  by  a  mierelin 
roundtableturning,  like  knuts  in  maze,  the  zitas 
runnind  hare  and  dart^  with  the  yeggs  in 
their  muddle,  like  a  seven  of  wingless  arrows, 
hodgepadge,  thump,  kick  and  hurry,  all  boy 
more  missis  blong  him  he  race  quickfeller  all 
same  hogglepiggle  longer  house  blong  him,^ 
while  the  catched  and  dodged  exarx  seems 
himmulteemiously  to  beem  (he  wins  her  hend! 
he  falls  to  tail!)  the  ersed  ladest  mand^  and 
(uhu  and  uhud!)  the  losed  farce  on  erro- 
roots,*  twalegged  poneys  and  threehandled 
dorkeys  (madahoy,  morahoy,  lugahoy,  jog- 
ahoyaway)  mPm  brings  us  a  rainborne  pamto- 
momiom,  aqualavant  to  (cat  my  dogs,  if  I 
baint  dingbushed  like  everything!)  kaksitoista 
volts  yksitoista  volts  kymmenen  volts  yhdek- 
san  volts  kahdeksan  volts  seitseman  volts  kuusi 
volts  viisi  volts  nelja  volts  kolme  volts  kaksi 
volts  yksi!allahthallacamellated,  caravan  series 
to  the  finish  of  helve's  fractures.^  In  outher 
wards,  one  from  five,  two  to  fives  ones,  one 
from  fives  two  millamills  with  a  mill  and  a 
half  a  mill  and  twos  twos  fives  fives  of  bully 
clavers.  For  a  surview  over  all  the  factionables 
see  Iris  in  the  Evenine's  World.^  Binomeans 
to  be  comprendered.  Inexcessible  as  thy  by 
god  ways.  The  aximones.  And  their  prosta- 


^  Talking  about  trilbits. 

^  Barneycorrall,  a  precedent  for  the  prodection  of  curiosity  from  children. 
^  A  pfurty  pscore  of  ruderic  rossies  haremhorde  for  his  divelsion. 

*  Look  at  your  mad  father  on  his  boneshaker  fraywhaling  round  Myriom 
square. 

^  Try  Asia  for  the  assphalt  body  with  the  concreke  soul  and  the  forequarters 
of  the  moon  behinding  out  of  his  phase. 

*  Tomatoes  malmalaid  with  De  Quinceys  salade  can  be  tastily  served  with 
Indiana  Blues  on  the  violens. 

285 


Vive  Paco 
Hunter/ 

The  hoisted  in 
red  and  the  low- 
ered in  black. 


The  boss's  bess 
bass  is  the  browd 
of  Mullingar. 


OF  COM- 
MONEST EX- 
PERIENCES 
BEFORE  APO- 
THEOSIS OF 
THE  LUSTRAL 
PRINCIPIUM. 


The  aliments  of 
jiimeantry. 


lutes.  For  his  neuralgiabrown. 
Equal  to  =  aosch. 

P.t.l.O.a.t.O.  HEPTAGRAMMATON. 

So,  bagdad,  after  those  initials  falls  and  that  hypotheses 
primary  taincture,  as  I  know  and  you  know 
yourself,  begath,  and  the  arab  in  the  ghetto 
knows  better,  by  nettus,  nor  anymeade  or 
persan,  comic  cuts  and  series  exerxeses  always 
were  to  be  capered  in  Casey's  frost  book  of, 
page  torn  on  dirty,  to  be  hacked  at  Hickey's, 
hucksler,  Wellington's  Iron  Bridge,  and  so,  by 
long  last,  as  it  would  shuffle  out,  must  he  to 
trump  adieu  atout  atous  to  those  cardinhands 
he  a  big  deal  missed,  radmachrees  and  rosse- 
cullinans  and  blagpikes  in  suitclover.  Dear 
hearts  of  my  counting,  would  he  revoke  them, 
forewheel  to  packnumbers,  and,  the  time  being 
no  help  fort,  plates  to  lick  one  and  turn  over. 

Problem  ye  ferst,  construct  ann  aquilittoral 
dryankle  Probe  loom !  With  his  primal  hand- 
stoe  in  his  sole  salivarium.  Concoct  an  equo- 
angular  trillitter.^  On  the  name  of  the  tizzer 
and  off  the  tongs  and  off  the  mythametical 
tripods.  Beatsoon. 

Can  you  nei  do  her,  numb.'^  asks  Dolph,^ 
suspecting  the  answer  know.  Oikkont,  ken 
you,  ninny.'^  asks  Kev,^  expecting  the  answer 
guess.^  Nor  was  the  noer  long  disappointed 
for  easiest  of  kisshams,  he  was  made  vicewise. 
Oc,  tell  it  to  oui,  do,  Sem!  Well,  'tis  oil  thusly. 
First  mull  a  mugfuU  of  mud,  son.^  Oglores, 


INGENIOUS 
LABOUR- 
TENACITY 
AS  BETWEEN 
INGENUOUS 
AND  LIBERTINE. 

PROPE  AND 
PROCUL  IN 
THE  CON- 
VERGENCE 
OF  THEIR 
CONTRAPUL- 
SIVENESS. 


^  As  Rhombulus  and  Rhebus  went  building  rhomes  one  day. 

2  The  trouveller. 

^  Of  the  disorded  visage. 

*  Singlebarrelled  names  for  doubleparalleled  twixtytwins. 

^  Like  pudging  a  spoon  fist  of  sugans  into  a  sotspot  of  choucolout. 

286 


1 


w 

J/ ill 


the  virtuoser  prays,  olorum!  What  the  D.V. 
would  I  do  that  for?  That's  a  goosey's  gans- 
wer  you're  for  giving  me,  he  is  told,  what  the 
Deva  would  you  do  that  for?^  Now,  sknow 
royol  road  to  Puddlin,  take  your  mut  for  a 
first  beginning,  big  to  bog,  back  to  bach. 
Wolsherwomens  Anny  liffle  mud  which  cometh  out  of  Mam 
at  their  weirdst,  will  doob,  I  guess.  A.i.  Amnium  instar.  And 
to  find  a  locus  for  an  alp  get  a  howlth  on  her 
bayrings  as  a  prisme  O  and  for  a  second  O 
unbox  your  compasses.  I  cain  but  are  you 
able.'^  Amicably  nod.  Gu  it!  So  let's  seth  off 
betwain  us.  Prompty.'*  Mux  your  pistany  at  a 
point  of  the  coastmap  to  be  called  a  but  pro- 
nounced olfa.  There's  the  isle  of  Mun,  ah! 
O!  Tis  just.  Benel  Now,  whole  in  applepine 
odrer^ 

(for — husk,  hisk,  a  spirit  spires — Dolph,  dean  of  idlers,  meager 
suckling  of  gert  stoan,  though  barekely  a  balbose  boy,  he  too,  — 
venite,  preterm,^  sine  mora  dumque  de  entibus  nascituris  decentius  in 
lingua  romana  mortuorum  parva  chartula  liviana  ostenditur,  seden- 
tes  in  letitiae  super  ollas  carnium^  spectantes  immo  situm  lutetiae  unde 
auspiciis  secundis  tantae  consurgent  humanae  stirpes,  antiquissimam 
flaminum  amhorium  Jordani  et  Jamhaptistae  mentihus  revolvamus 
sapientiam:  totum  tute  fluvii  modo  mundo  fluere,  eadem  quae  ex 
aggere  fututa  fuere  iterum  inter  alveum  fore  futura,  quodlihet  sese 
ipsum  per  aliudpiam  agnoscere  contrarium,  omnem  demun  amnem 
ripis  rivalibus  amplecti^  —  recurrently  often,  when  him  moved  he 
would  cake  their  chair,  coached  rebelliumtending  mikes  of  his 
same  and  over  his  own  choirage  at  Backlane  Univarsity,  among  of 
which  pupal  souaves  the  pizdrool  was  pulled  up,  bred  and  bat- 

^  Will  you  walk  into  my  wave  trap?  said  the  spiter  to  the  shy. 
2  If  we  each  could  always  do  all  we  ever  did. 
^  Dope  in  Canorian  words  we've  made.  Spish  from  the  Doc. 
*  Basqueesh,  Finnican,  Hungulash  and  Old  Teangtaggle,  the  only  pure 
way  to  work  a  curse. 

287 


tered,  for  a  dillon  a  dollar,^  chanching  letters  for  them  vice  oVerse 
to  bronze  mottes  and  blending  tschemes  for  em  in  tropadores  and 
doublecressing  twofold  thruths  and  devising  tingling  tailwords 
too  whilest,  cunctant  that  another  would  finish  his  sentence  for 
him,  he  druider  would  smilabit  eggways^  ned,  he,  to  don't  say 
nothing,  would,  so  prim,  and  pick  upon  his  ten  ordinailed  ungles, 
trying  to  undo  with  his  teeth  the  knots  made  by  his  tongue, 
retelling  humself  by  the  math  hour,  long  as  he's  brood,  a  reel  of 
funnish  ficts  apout  the  shee,  how  faust  of  all  and  on  segund 
thoughts  and  the  thirds  the  charmhim  girlalove  and  fourther- 
more  and  filthily  with  bag  from  Oxatown  and  baroccidents  and 
proper  accidence  and  hoptohill  and  hexenshoes,  in  fine  the  whole 
damning  letter;  and,  in  point  of  feet,  when  he  landed  in  ourland's 
leinster^  of  saved  and  solomnones  for  the  twicedhecame  time,  off 
Lipton's  strongbowed  launch,  the  Lady  Eva^  in  a  tan  soute  of 
sails*  he  converted  it's  nataves,  name  saints,  young  ordnands, 
maderaheads  and  old  unguished  P.T.  Publikums,  through  the 
medium  of  znigznaks  with  sotiric  zeal,  to  put  off  the  barcelonas^ 
from  their  peccaminous  corpulums  (Gratings,  Mr  Dane!)  and 
kiss  on  their  bottes  (Master!)  as  often  as  they  came  within  blood- 
shot of  that  other  familiar  temple  and  showed  «m  the  celestine 
way  to  by  his  tristar  and  his  flop  hattrick  and  his  perry  humdrum 
dumb  and  numb  nostrums  that  he  larned  in  Hymbuktu,^  and  that 
same  galloroman  cultous  is  very  prevailend  up  to  this  windiest  of 
landhavemiseries  all  over  what  was  beforeaboots  a  land  of  nods,  in 
spite  of  all  the  bloot,  all  the  braim,  all  the  brawn,  all  the  brile,  that 
was  shod,  that  were  shat,  that  was  shuk  all  the  while,  for  our 
massangrey  if  mosshungry  people,  the  at  Wickerworks,^  still  hold 

^  An  ounceworth  of  onions  for  a  pennyawealth  of  sobs. 

2  Who  brought  us  into  the  yellow  world ! 

3  Because  it's  run  on  the  mountain  and  river  system. 

*  When  all  them  allied  sloopers  was  ventitillated  in  their  poppos  and, 
sliding  down  by  creek  and  veek,  stole  snaking  out  to  sea. 

^  They  were  plumped  and  plumed  and  jerried  and  citizens  and  racers,  and 
cinnamondhued. 

®  Creeping  Crawleys  petery  parley,  banished  to  his  native  Ireland  from 
erring  under  Ryan. 

'  Had  our  retrospectable  fearfurther  gatch  mutchtatches.^ 

288 


ford  to  their  healing  and^  byleave  in  the  old  weights  downupon 
the  Swanny,  innovated  by  him,  the  prence  di  Propagandi,  the 
chrism  for  the  christmass,  the  pillar  of  the  perished  and  the  rock 
o'ralereality,  and  it  is  veritably  belied,  we  belove,  that  not  allsods 
of  esoupcans  that's  in  the  queen's  pottage  post  and  not  allfinesof 
greendgold  that  the  Indus  contains  would  overhinduce  them, 
(o.p.)  to  steeplechange  back  once  from  their  ophis  workship  and 
twice  on  sundises,  to  their  ancient  flash  and  crash  habits  of  old 
Pales  time  ere  beam  slewed  cable^  or  Derzherr,  live  wire,  fired 
Benj ermine  Funkling  outa  th'Empyre,  sin  righthand  son;  which, 
cummal,  having  listed  curefully  to  the  interlocking  and  the  under- 
lacking  of  her  twentynine  shifts  or  his  continental's  curses,  pum- 
mel, apostrophised  Byrne's  and  Flamming's  and  Furniss's  and 
Bill  Hayses's  and  Ellishly  Haught's,  hoc,  they  (t.a.W.),  sick 
or  whole,  stiff  or  sober,  let  drop  as  a  doombody  drops,  with- 
out another  ostrovgods  word  eitherways,  in  their  own  lineal 
descendance,  as  priesto  as  puddywhack,^  coal  on:*  and,  as  we 
gang  along  to  gigglehouse,  talking  of  molniacs'  manias  and 
missions  for  mades  to  scotch  the  schlang  and  leathercoats  for 
murty  magdies,  of  course  this  has  blameall  in  that  medeoturanian 
world  to  say  to  blessed  by  Pointer  the  Grace's  his  privates  judges 
ments^  whenso  to  put  it,  disparito,  duspurudo,  desterrado,  des- 
pertieu^  or,  saving  his  presents  for  his  own  onefriend  Bevradge, 
Conn  the  Shaughraun;  but  to  return  for  a  moment  from  the 
reptile's  age^  to  the  coxswain  on  the  first  landing  (page  Ainee 
Riviere!)  if  the  pretty  Lady  Elisabbess,  Hotel  des  Ruines  —  she 
laid  her  batsleeve  for  him  two  trueveres  tell  love  (on  the  Ides  of 
Valentino's,  at  Idleness,  Floods  Area,  Isolade,  Liv's  lonely 
daughter,  with  the  Comes  Tichiami,  of  Prima  Vista,  Abroad, 
suddenly),  and  beauty  alone  of  all  dare  say  when  now,  uncrowned, 

^  That  is  to  sight,  when  cleared  of  factions,  vulgure  and  decimating. 
2  They  just  spirits  a  body  away. 
^  Patatapadatback. 

*  Dump  her  (the  missuse). 
^  Fox  him!  The  leggy  coh! 

*  Do  he  not  know  that  walleds  had  wars.  Harring  man,  is  neow  king.  This 
is  modeln  times. 


289 


dcceptered,  in  what  niche  of  time^  is  Shee  or  where  in  the  rose 
world  trysting,  that  was  the  belle  of  La  Chapelle,  shapely  Liselle^ 
and  the  peg-of-my-heart  of  all  the  tompull  or  on  whose  limbs-to- 
lave  her  semicupiose  eyes  now  kindling  themselves  are  brightning,^ 
O  Shee  who  then  (4.32  m.p.,  old  time,  to  be  precise,  according  to 
all  three  doctors  waterburies  that  was  Mac  Auliffe  and  poor  Mac- 
Beth  and  poor  MacGhimley  to  the  tickleticks,  of  the  synchron- 
isms, all  lauschening,  a  time  also  confirmed  seven  sincuries  later  by 
the  quatren  medical  johnny,  poor  old  MacAdoo  MacDollett,  with 
notary,^  whose  presence  was  required  by  law  of  Devine  Fore- 
sygth  and  decretal  of  the  Douge)  who  after  the  first  compliments* 
med  darkist  day  light,  gave  him  then  that  vantage  of  a  Blinken- 
sope's  cuddlebath  at  her  proper  mitts  —  if  she  then,  the  then  that 
matters,  —  but,  seigneur  I  she  could  never  have  forefelt,  as  she  yet 
will  fearfeel,  when  the  lovenext  breaks  out,  such  a  coolcold 
douche  as  him,  the  totterer,  the  four-flights-the-charmer,  doub- 
ling back,  in  nowtime,^  bymby  when  saltwater  he  wush  him  these 
iselands,  O  alorsl,  to  mount  miss  (the  wooeds  of  Fogloot!)  under 
that  chemise  de  fer  and  a  vartryproof  name,  Multalusi  (would  it 
wash?)  with  a  cheek  white  peaceful  as,  wen  shall  say,  a  single  pro- 
fessed claire's®  and  his  washawash  tubatubtub  and  his  diagonoser's 
lampblick,  to  pure  where  they  where  hornest  girls,  to  buy  her  in 
par  jure^  il  you  plait,  nuncandtunc  and  for  simper,  and  other  duel 
mavourneens  in  plurible  numbers  from  Arklow  Vikloe  to  Louth 
super  Luck,  come  messes,  come  mams,  and  touch  your  spottprice 
(for  'twas  he  was  the  born  suborner,  man)  on  behalf  of  an  oldest 
ablished  firma  of  winebakers,  Lagrima  and  Gemiti,  later  on,  his 
craft  ebbing,  invoked  by  the  unirish  title,  Grindings  of  Nash,'  the 

^  Muckross  Abbey  witli  the  creepers  taken  off. 
2  Joke  and  Jilt  will  have  their  tilt. 
^  Old  Mamalujorum  and  Rawrogerum. 
*  Why  have  these  puerile  blonds  those  large  flexible  ears.'' 
^  Pomeroy  Roche  of  Portobello,  or  the  Wreck  of  the  Ragamuffin. 
®  No  wonder  Miss  Dotsh  took  to  veils  and  she  descended  from  that 
obloquohy. 

'  The  bookley  with  the  rusin's  hat  is  Patomkin  but  I'm  blowed  if  I  knowed 
who  the  slave  is  doing  behind  the  curtain. 


290 


One  and  Only,  Unic  bar  None,  of  Saint  Yves  by  Landsend  com- 
wer,  man  —  ship  me  silver!,  it  must  have  been,  faw!  a  terrible 
mavrue  mavone,  to  synamite  up  the  old  Adam-he-used-to,  such  a 
finalley,  and  that's  flat  as  Tut's  fut,  for  whowghowho?  the  poour 
girl,  a  lonely  peggy,  given  the  bird,  so  inseuladed  as  Crampton's 
peartree,  (she  sail  eurn  bitter  bed  by  thirt  sweet  of  her  face!),  and 
short  wonder  so  many  of  the  tomthick  and  tarry  members  in  all 
there  subsequious  ages  of  our  timocracy  tipped  to  console  with  her 
at  her  mirrorable  gracewindow'd  hut^  till  the  ives  of  Man,  the 
O'Kneels  and  the  OTrayins  and  the  O'Hyens  of  Lochlaunstown 
and  the  O'Hollerins  of  Staneybatter,  hollyboys,  all,  burryripe 
who'll  buy?,^  in  juwelietry  and  kickychoses  and  madornaments 
and  that's  not  the  finis  of  it  (would  it  were!) — but  to  think  of  him 
foundling  a  nelliza  the  second,^  also  cliptbuss  (the  best  was  still 
there  if  the  torso  was  gone)  where  he  did  and  when  he  did,  re- 
triever to  the  last*  —  escapes  my  forgetness  now  was  it  dust- 
covered,  mm  de  Lieu !  on  lapse  or  street  ondown,  through,  for  or 
from  a  foe,  by  with  as  on  a  friend,  at  the  Rectory?  Vicarage  Road? 
Bishop's  Folly?  Papesthorpe?,  after  picket  fences,  stonewalls,  out 
and  ins  or  oxers  —  for  merry  a  valsehood  whisprit  he  to  manny  a 
lilying  earling;^  and  to  try  to  analyse  that  ambo's  pair  of  brace- 
leans  akwart  the  rollyon  trying  to  amarm  all^  of  that  miching 
micher's  bearded  but  insensible  virility  and  its  gaulish  mous- 
taches, Dammad  and  Groany,  into  her  limited  {tuff,  tuff,  que  tu  es 
pitrel)  lapse  at  the  same  slapse  for  towelling  ends'  in  their  dolight- 
ful  Sexsex  home,  Somehow-at-Sea  (O  little  oily  head,  sloper's 
brow  and  prickled  ears!)  as  though  he,  a  notoriety,  a  foist  edition, 
were  a  wrigular  writher  neonovene  babe !®  —  well,  diarmuee  and 

lOhcelOhce! 

^  Six  and  seven  the  League. 

^  It's  all  round  me  hat  I'll  wear  a  drooping  dido. 

*  Have  you  ever  thought  of  a  hitching  your  stem  and  being  ourdeaned, 
Mester  Bootenfly,  here's  me  and  Myrtle  is  twinkling  to  know. 
^  To  show  they  caught  preferment. 
^  See  the  freeman's  cuticatura  by  Fennella. 
'  Just  one  big  booty's  pot. 

®  Charles  de  Simples  had  an  infirmierity  complexe  before  he  died  a  natural 
death. 

291 


granyou  and  Vae  Vinctis^  if  that  is  what  lamoor  that  of  gentle 
breast  rathe  is  intaken  seems  circling  toward  out  yondest  (it's 
life  that's  all  chokered  by  that  batch  of  grim  rushers)  heaven 
help  his  hindmost  and,  mark  mo,  if  the  so  greatly  displeaced 
diorems  in  the  Saint  Lubbock's  Day  number  of  that  most  improv- 
ing of  roundshows.  Spice  and  Westend  Woman  (utterly  exhausted 
before  publication,  indiapepper  edition  shortly),  are  for  our  in- 
dices, it  agins  to  pear  like  it,  par  my  fay,  and  there  is  no  use  for  your 
pastripreaching  for  to  cheesse  it  either  or  praying  fresh  fleshblood 
claspers  of  young  catholick  throats  on  Huggin  Green^  to  take 
warning  by  the  prispast,  why?,  by  cows  * .  *  man,  in  shirt,  is  how 
he  is  piu  la  gonna  e  mobile  and  .  * .  they  wonet  do  ut;  and,  an  you 
could  peep  inside  the  cerebralised  saucepan  of  this  eer  illwinded 
goodfornobody,  you  would  see  in  his  house  of  thoughtsam  (was 
you,  that  is,  decontaminated  enough  to  look  discarnate)  what  a 
jetsam  litterage  of  convolvuli  of  times  lost  or  strayed,  of  lands 
derelict  and  of  tongues  laggin  too,  longa  yamsayore,  not  only  that 
but,  search  lighting,  beached,  bashed  and  beaushelled  d  la  Mer 
pharahead  into  faturity,  your  own  convolvulis  pickninnig  capman 
would  real  to  jazztfancy  the  novo  takin  place  of  what  stale  words 
whilom  were  woven  with  and  fitted  fairly  featly  for,  so;  and 
equally  so,  the  crame  of  the  whole  faustian  fustian,  whether  your 
launer's  lightsome  or  your  soulard's  schwearmood,  it  is  that, 
whenas  the  swiftshut  scareyss  of  our  pupilteachertaut  duplex  will 
hark  back  to  lark  to  you  symibellically  that,  though  a  day  be  as 
dense  as  a  decade,  no  mouth  has  the  might  to  set  a  mearbound  to 
the  march  of  a  landsmaul,^  in  half  a  sylb,  helf  a  solb,  holf  a  salb  on- 
ward^ the  beast  of  boredom,  common  sense,  lurking  gyrographi- 
cally  down  inside  his  loose  Eating  S.S.  collar  is  gogoing  of 
whisth  to  you  sternly  how  —  Plutonic  loveliaks  twinnt  Platonic 
yearlings  —  you  must,  how,  in  undivided  reawlity  draw  the  line 
somewhawre) 

^  Where  Buickly  of  the  Glass  and  Bellows  pumped  the  Rudge  engineral. 
2  Matter  of  Brettaine  and  brut  fierce. 

^  Bussmullah,  cried  Lord  Wolsley,  how  me  Aunty  Mag'll  row! 


292 


i 


teralterance  or 
e  Interplay  of 
ones  in  the 
'^omb. 


he  Vortex, 
mng  of Sprung 
erse.  The  Ver- 


Coss?  Cossist?  Your  parn!  You,  you  make 
what  name?  (and  in  truth,  as  a  poor  soul  is 
between  shift  and  shift  ere  the  death  he  has 
lived  through  becomes  the  life  he  is  to  die 
into,  he  or  he  had  albut  —  he  was  rickets  as  to 
reasons  but  the  balance  of  his  minds  was 
stables  —  lost  himself  or  himself  some  som- 
nione  sciupiones,  soswhitchoverswetch  had 
he  or  he  gazet,  murphy  come,  murphy  go, 
murphy  plant,  murphy  grow,  a  maryamyria- 
meliamurphies,  in  the  lazily  eye  of  his  lapis, 


WHY  MY  AS 
LIKEWISE 
WHIS  HIS. 


Vieus  Von  DVbLIn,  'twas  one  of  dozedeams 
a  darkies  ding  in  dewood)  the  Turnpike  under 
the  Great  Ulm  (with  Mearingstone  in  Fore 
ground).^  Given  now  ann  linch  you  take  enn 
all.  Allow  me!  And,  heaving  alljawbreakical 
expressions  out  of  old  Sare  Isaac's^  universal 
of  specious  aristmystic  unsaid,  A  is  for  Anna 
like  L  is  for  liv.  Aha  hahah.  Ante  Ann  you're 
apt  to  ape  aunty  annalive!  Dawn  gives  rise. 
Lo,  lo,  lives  love!  Eve  takes  fall.  La,  la,  laugh 
leaves  alass!  Aiaiaiai,  Antiann,  we're  last  to 
the  lost,  Loulou!  Tis  perfect.  Now  (lens 


^  Draumcondra's  Dreamcountry  where  the  betterlies  blow. 

2  O,  Laughing  Sally,  are  we  going  to  be  toadhauntered  by  that  old  Pantifox 

Sir  Somebody  Something,  Burtt,  for  the  rest  of  our  secret  stripture? 


293 


Sarga,  or  the 
path  of  outgoing. 


Docetism  and 
Didicism^  Maya- 
Thaya.  Tamas- 
Rajas-Sattvas, 


your  dappled  yeye  here,  mine's  presbyoperian, 
shill  and  wall)  we  see  the  copyngink  strayed- 
line  AL  (in  Fig.,  the  forest)  from  being  con- 
tinued, stops  ait  Lambday^:  Modder  ilond 
there  too.  Allow  me  anchore!  I  bring  down 
noth  and  carry  awe.  Now,  then,  take  this  in! 
One  of  the  most  murmurable  loose  caroUaries 
ever  Ellis  threw  his  cookingclass.  With  Olaf 
as  centrum  and  OlaPs  lambtail  for  his  spokes- 
man circumscript  a  cyclone.  Allow  ter!  Hoop! 
As  round  as  the  calf  of  an  egg!  O,  dear 
me!  O,  dear  me  now!  Another  grand  dis- 
cobely!  After  Makefearsome's  Ocean.  You've 
actuary  entducked  one!  Quok!  Why,  you 
haven't  a  passer!  Fantastic!  Early  clever, 
surely  doomed,  to  Swift's,  alas,  the  galehus! 
Match  of  a  matchness,  like  your  Bigdud  dadder 
in  the  boudeville  song,  Gorotsky  Gollovars 
Troubles^  raucking  his  flavourite  turvku  in 
the  smukking  precincts  of  lydias,^  with  Mary 
Owens  and  Dolly  Monks  seesidling  to  edge 
his  cropulence  and  Blake-Roche,  Kingston 
and  Dockrell  auriscenting  him  from  afurz,  our 
papacocopotl,^  Abraham  Bradley  King.^  (tirig 
ting!  ting  ting!)  By  his  magmasine  fall.  Lumps, 
lavas  and  all.'*  Bene!  But,  thunder  and  turf,  it's 
not  alover  yet!  One  recalls  Byzantium.  The 
mystery  repeats  itself  todate  as  our  callback 
mother  Gaudyanna,  that  was  daughter  to  a 
tanner,^  used  to  sing,  as  I  think,  now  and  then 
consinuously  over  her  possetpot  in  her  quer 

