the  recreuter  of  conscraptions,  let  him  be  asservent  to  Kinahaun ! 
For  (peace  peace  perfectpeace !)  I  have  abwaited  me  in  a  water  of 
Elin  and  I  have  placed  my  reeds  intectis  before  the  Registower  of 
the  perception  of  tribute  in  the  hall  of  the  city  of  Analbe.  How 
concerns  any  merryaunt  and  hworsoever  gravesobbers  it  is 
perensempry  sex  of  fun  to  help  a  dazzle  off  the  othour.  What  for 
Mucias  and  Gracias  may  the  duvlin  rape  the  handsomst!  And  the 
whole  mad  knightmayers'  nest!  Tunpother,  prison  and  plotch! 
If  Y  shoulden  somewhat,  well,  I  am  able  to  owe  it,  hearth  and  chem- 
ney  easy.  They  seeker  for  vannflaum  all  worldins  merkins.  V\\ 
eager  make  lyst  turpidump  undher  arkens.  Basast!  And  if  my  liti- 
gimate  was  well  to  wrenn  tigtag  cackling  about  it,  like  the  sally 
herd  she  is,  to  abery  ham  in  the  Cutey  Strict,  (I  shall  call  upon 
my  first  among  my  lost  of  lyrars  beyond  a  jingoobangoist,  to 
overcast  her)  dismissing  mundamanu  all  the  riflings  of  her  vic- 
tuum  gleaner  (my  old  chuck!  she  drakes  me  druck!  turning  out, 
gay  at  ninety!)  and  well  shoving  off  a  boastonmess  like  lots  wives 
does  over  her  handpicked  hunsbend,  as  she  would  be  calling,  well, 

364 


i 


for  further  oil  mircles  upon  all  herwayferer  gods  and  reanounc- 
ing  my  deviltries  as  was  I  a  locally  person  of  caves  until  I  got  my 
purchase  on  her  firmforhold  I  am,  I  like  to  think,  by  their  sacre- 
ligion  of  daimond  cap  daimond,  confessedly  in  my  baron  gentil- 
homme  to  the  manhor  bourne  till  ladiest  day  as  panthoposopher, 
to  have  splet  for  groont  a  peer  of  bellows  like  Bacchulus  shakes  a 
rousing  guttural  at  any  old  cerpaintime  by  peaching  (allsole  we 
are  not  amusical)  the  warry  warst  against  myself  in  the  defile  as 
a  lieberretter  sebaiscopal  of  these  mispeschyites  of  the  first  virgi- 
nial  water  who,  without  an  auction  of  biasement  from  my  part, 
with  gladyst  tone  ahquickyessed  in  it,  overhowe  and  under- 
where,  the  totty  lolly  poppy  flossy  conny  dollymaukins.  Though 
I  heave  a  coald  on  my  bauck  and  am  could  up  to  my  eres  hoven 
sametimes  I  used  alltides  to  be  aswarmer  for  the  meekst  and  the 
graced.  You  are  not  going  to  not.  You  might  be  threeabreasted 
wholenosing  at  a  whallhoarding  from  our  Don  Amir  anent  villa- 
yets  prostatution  precisingly  kuschkars  tarafs  and  it  could  be 
double  densed  uncounthest  hour  of  allbleakest  age  with  a  bad  of 
wind  and  a  barran  of  rain,  nompos  mentis  like  Novus  Elector,  what 
with  his  Marx  and  their  Groups,  yet  did  a  doubt,  should  a  dare, 
were  to  you,  you  would  do  and  dhamnk  me,  shenker,  dhumnk  you. 
Skunk.  And  fare  with  me  to  share  with  me.  Hinther  and  thonther, 
hant  by  hont.  By  where  dauvening  shedders  down  whose  rovely 
lanes.  As  yose  were  and  as  yese  is.  Sure  and  you  would,  Mr  Mac 
Gurk!  Be  sure  and  you  would,  Mr  O'Duane!  To  be  sure  and  you 
would  so,  Mr  MacElligut!  Wod  you  nods.^  Mom  mom.  No  mum 
has  the  rod  to  pud  a  stub  to  the  lurch  of  amotion.  My  little  love 
apprencisses,  my  dears,  the  estelles,  van  Nessies  von  Nixies  voon 
der  pool,  which  I  had  a  reyal  devouts  for  yet  was  it  marly  lowease 
or  just  a  feel  with  these  which  olderman  K.K.  Alwayswelly  he 
is  showing  ot  the  fullnights  for  my  palmspread  was  gav  to  a 
parsleysprig,  the  curliest  weedeen  old  ocean  coils  around,  so  spruce 
a  spice  for  salthorse,  sonnies,  and  as  tear  to  the  thrusty  as  Tay- 
lor's Spring,  when  aftabournes,  when  she  was  look  like  a  little 
cheayat  chilled  (Oh  sard!  ah  Mah!)  by  my  tide  impracing,  as 
Beacher  seath,  and  all  the  colories  fair  fled  from  my  folced  cheeks ! 

365 


Popottes,  where  you  canceal  me  you  mayst  forced  guage  my 
bribes.  Wickedgapers,  I  appeal  against  the  light!  A  nexistence  of 
vividence!  Panto,  boys,  is  on  a  looser  inloss;  ballet,  girls,  suppline 
thrown  tights.  I  have  wanted  to  thank  you  such  a  long  time  so 
much  now.  Thank  you.  Sir,  kindest  of  bottleholders  and  very  dear 
friend,  among  our  hearts  of  steel,  froutiknow,  it  will  befor  you, 
me  dare  beautiful  young  soldier,  winninger  nor  anyour  of  rudi- 
mental  moskats,  before  you  go  to  mats,  you  who  have  watched 
your  share  with  your  sockboule  sodalists  on  your  buntad  nogs  at 
our  love  tennis  squats  regatts,  suckpump,  when  on  with  the  balls 
did  disserve  the  fain,  my  goldrush  gainst  her  silvernetss,  to  say, 
biguidd,  for  the  love  of  goddess  and  perthanow  as  you  reveres 
your  one  mothers,  mitsch  for  matsch,  and  while  I  reveal  thus  my 
deepseep  daughter  which  was  bourne  up  pridely  out  of  meds- 
dreams  unclouthed  when  I  was  pillowing  in  my  brime  (of  Satur- 
nay  Eve,  how  now,  woren't  we't?),  to  see,  I  say,  whoahoa,  in  stay 
of  execution  in  re  Milcho  Melekmans,  increaminated,  what  you 
feel,  oddrabbit,  upon  every  strong  ground  you  have  ever  taken 
up,  by  bitterstiff  work  or  battonstaff  play,  with  assault  of  turk 
against  a  barrakraval  of  grakeshoots,  e'en  tho'  Jambuwel's  defe- 
calties  is  Terry  Shimmyrag's  upperturnity,  if  that  is  grace  for  the 
grass  what  is  balm  for  the  bramblers,  as  it  is  as  it  is,  that  I  am  the 
catasthmatic  old  ruffin  sippahsedly  improctor  to  be  seducint  tro- 
vatellas,  the  dire  daffy  damedeaconesses,  like  (why  sighs  the 
sootheesinger)  the  lilliths  oft  I  feldt,  and,  when  booboob  brutals 
and  cautiouses  only  aims  at  the  oggog  hogs  in  the  humand,  then, 
(Houtes,  Blymey  and  Torrenation,  upkurts  and  scotchem!)  FU 
tall  tale  tell  croon  paysecurers,  sowill  nuggets  and  nippers,  that 
thash  on  me  stumpen  blows  the  gaff  off  mombition  and  thit  thides 
or  marse  makes  a  good  dayle  to  be  shattat.  Fall  stuff. 
His  rote  in  ere,  afstef,  was. 

And  dong  wonged  Magongty  till  the  bombtomb  of  the  warr, 
thrusshed  in  his  whole  soort  of  cloose. 

Whisht  who  wooed  in  Weald,  bays  of  Bawshaw  binding.  The 
desire  of  Miriam  is  the  despair  of  Marian  as  Joh  Joseph's  beauty 
is  Jacq  Jacob's  grief.  Brow,  tell  nun;  eye,  feign  sad;  mouth,  sing 

366 


r 


mim.  Look  at  Lokman!  Whatbetween  the  cupgirls  and  the 
platterboys.  And  he  grew  back  into  his  grossery  baseness:  and 
for  all  his  grand  remonstrance:  and  there  you  are. 

Here  endeth  chinchinatibus  with  have  speak  finish.  With  a 
haygue  for  a  halt  on  a  pouncefoot  pause.  Pink,  pleas  pink,  two 
pleas  pink,  how  to  pleas  pink. 
Punk. 

Mask  one.  Mask  two.  Mask  three.  Mask  four.  J  --rL  ^  '  ^^^i^ 
U^^t.  R  ^ 

—  Look  about  you,  Tutty  Comyn!  y^^^  ^^hJL^ 

—  Remember  and  recall,  KuUykeg! 

—  When  visiting  Dan  Leary  try  the  corner  house  for  thee. 

—  I'll  gie  ye  credit  for  simmence  more  if  ye'll  be  lymphing.  t^^^^^^ 
/  OurJ*(mr^ayunculusts. 

/     And,  since  threestory  sorratelling  was  much  too  many,  they 
/  maddened  and  they  morgued  and  they  lungd  and  they  jowld. 
/    Synopticked  on  the  word. 
Till  the  Juke  done  it. 
CjDown;) 

Like  Jukoleon,  the  seagoer,  when  he  bore  down  in  his  perry 
boat  he  had  raised  a  slide  and  shipped  his  orders  and  seized  his 
pullets  and  primed  their  plumages,  the  fionnling  and  dubhlet,  the 
dun  and  the  fire,  and,  sending  them  one  by  other  to  fare  fore  forn, 
he  had  behold  the  residuance  of  a  delugion:  the  foggy  doze  still 
going  strong,  the  old  thalassocrats  of  invinsible  empores,  maskers 
oLthe  waterworld,  facing  one  way  to  another  way  and  this  way 
on  that  way,  from  severalled  their  fourdimmansions.  Where  the 
lighning  leaps  from  the  numbulous;  where  coold  by  cawld  breide 
lieth  langwid;  the  bounds  whereinbourne  our  soiled  bodies  all 
attomed  attaim  arrest:  appoint,  that's  all.  But  see  what  follows. 
Wringlings  upon  wronglings  among  incomputables  about  an 
uncomeoutable  (an  angel  prophetethis.'^  kingcorrier  of  beheasts.^  .  ^ 

the  calif  in  his  halifskin.'^  that  eyriewinging  one?)  and  the  voids 
bubbily  vode's  dodos  across  the  which  the  boomomouths  from 
their  dupest  dupes  were  in  envery  and  anononously  blowing 
great. 

367 


J) 


Guns. 

Keep  backwards,  please,  because  there  was  no  good  to  gundy 
running  up  again.  Guns.  And  it  was  written  up  in  big  capital. 
Guns.  Saying  never  underrupt  greatgrandgosterfosters !  Guns. 
And  whatever  one  did  they  said,  the  fourlings,  that  on  no  acounts 
you  were  not  to.  Guns. 

Not  to  pad  them  behaunt  in  the  fear.  Not  to  go,  tonnerwatter, 
and  bungley  well  chute  the  rising  gianerant.  Not  to  wandly  be 
woking  around  jerumsalemdo  at  small  hours  about  the  murketplots, 
smelling  okey  boney,  this  little  figgy  and  arraky  belloky  this  little 
pink  into  porker  but,  porkodirto,  to  let  the  gentlemen  pedesta- 
rolies  out  of  the  Monabella  culculpuration  live  his  own  left  leave, 
cullebuone,  by  perperusual  of  the  petpubblicities  without  inwok- 
ing  his  also's  between  (sic)  the  arraky  bone  and  (sue)  the  okey 
bellock.  And  not  to  not  be  always,  hemmer  and  hummer,  treeing 
unselves  up  with  one  exite  but  not  to  never  be  caving  nicely,  pre- 
cisely, quicely,  rebustly,  tendrolly,  unremarkably,  forsakenly,  hal- 
tedly,  reputedly,  firstly,  somewhatly,  yesayenoUy  about  the  back 
excits.  Never  to  weaken  up  in  place  of  the  broths.  Never  to  vvol- 
lusslleepp  in  the  pleece  of  the  poots.  And,  allerthings,  never  to  ate 
the  sour  deans  if  they  weren't  having  anysin  on  their  consients. 
And,  when  in  Zumschloss,  to  never,  narks,  cease  till  the  finely 
ending  was  consummated  by  the  completion  of  accomplishment. 

And  thus  within  the  tavern's  secret  booth  The  wisehight  ones 
who  sip  the  tested  sooth  Bestir  them  as  the  Just  has  bid  to  jab  The 
punch  of  quaram  on  the  mug  of  truth. 

K.C.  jowls,  they're  sodden  in  the  secret.  K.C.  jowls,  they  sure 
are  wise.  K.C.  jowls,  the  justicestjobbers,  for  they'll  find  another 
faller  if  their  ruse  won't  rise.  Whooley  the  Whooper. 
_Theieistasee.  Squarish  large  face  with  the  atlas  jacket.  Brights, 
brownie  eyes  in  bluesackin  shoeings.  Peaky  booky  nose  over  a 
lousiany  shirt.  Ruddy  stackle  hair  besides  a  strawcamel  belt. 
Namely.  Gregorovitch,  Leonocopolos,  Tarpinacci  and  Duggel- 
duggel.  And  was  theys  stare  all  atime.^  Yea  but  they  was.  Andor- 
ing  the  games,  induring  the  studies,  undaring  the  stories,  end  all. 
Ned.-^  Only  snugged  then  and  cosied  after  one  percepted  nought 

368 


while  tuffbettle  outraged  the  waywords  and  meansigns  of  their 

hinterhand  suppliesdemands.  And  be  they  gone  to  splane  splica- 

tion?  That  host  that  hast  one  on  the  hoose  when  backturns  when 

he  facefronts  none  none  in  the  house  his  geust  has  guest.  You  bet  ^  - 

they  is.  And  nose  well  down. 

With  however  what  sublation  of  compensation  in  the  radifica- 
tijon  of  interpretation  by  the  byeboys.'^  Being  they.  Mr  G.  B.  W.'j 
Ashburner,  S.  Bruno's  Toboggan  Drive,  Mr  Faixgood,  Bell-/ 
chimbers,  Carolan  Crescent,  Mr  LJL  Chattaway,  Hilly  Gape^^^^  »^ 
PQ,  Poplar  Park,  Mr  Q.  P.  Dieudonney,  The  View,  Gazey  PeerA 
Mr  T.  T.  Erchdeakin,  Multiple  Lodge,  Jiff  Exby  Rode,  Mr  W.  K.  | 
Ferris-Fender,  Fert  Fort,  Woovil  Doon  Botham  ontowhom 
adding  the  tout  that  pumped  the  stout  that  linked  the  lank  that 
cold  the  sandy  that  nextdoored  the  rotter  that  rooked  the  rhymer 
that  lapped  at  the  hoose  that  Joax  pilled. 

The.y  had  heard  or  had  heard  said  or  had  heard  said  written. 


Fidelisat.       p^'^dM^  l-l^  7^-^-^ 


That  there  first  a  rudrik  kingcomed  to  an  inn  court;  and  the 
seight  of  that  yard  was  a  perchypole  with  a  loovahgloovah  on  it; 
last  rmnnarks  m  when  wandshift  winneth  womans:  so 

how  would  it  hum,  whoson  of  a  which,  if  someof  aswas  to  start 
to  stunt  the  story  on.'^ 

So  many  needles  to  ponk  out  to  as  many  noodles  as  are  com- 
pany, they  noddling  all  about  it  tutti  to  tempo,  decumans  numbered 
too,  (a)  well,  that  the  secretary  bird,  better  known  as  Pandoria 
PauUabucca,  whom  they  thought  was  more  like  a  solicitor  general, 
indiscriminatingly  made  belief  mid  authorsagastions  from  Schelm 
the  Pelman  to  write  somewords  to  Senders  about  her  chilikin 
puck,  laughing  that  Poulebec  would  be  the  death  of  her,  {l>)  that, 
well,  that  Madges  Tighe,  the  postulate  auditressee,  when  her 
daremood's  a  grownian,  is  always  on  the  who  goes  where,  hoping 
to  Michal  for  the  latter  to  turn  up  with  a  cupital  tea  before  her 
ephumeral  comes  off  without  any  much  father  which  is  parting 
parcel  of  the  same  goumeral's  postoppage,  it  being  lookwhyse  on 
the  whence  blows  weather  helping  mickle  so  that  the  loiter  end  of 
that  leader  may  twaddle  out  after  a  cubital  lull  with  a  hopes  soon 

369 


to  ear,  comprong?  (c)  becakes  the  goatsman  on  question,  or  what- 
ever the  hen  the  humbler  was,  feeling  not  up  to  scratch  bekicks 
of  whatever  the  kiddings  Payne  Inge  and  Popper  meant  for  him, 
thoughy  onced  at  a  throughlove,  true  grievingfrue  danger,  as  a 
nirshe  persent  to  his  minstress,  devourced  the  pair  of  them 
Mather  Caray's  chucklings,  pante  blanche^  and  skittered  his  litters 
like  the  cavaliery  man  in  Cobra  Park  for  ungeborn  yenkelmen, 
Jeremy  Trouvas  or  Kepin  O'Keepers,  any  old  howe  and  any  old 
then  and  when  around  Dix  Dearthy  Dungbin,  remarking  sceni- 
cally  with  laddylike  lassitude  upon  what  he  finally  postscrapped, 
{d)  after  it's  so  long  till  I  thanked  you  about  I  do  so  much  now 
thank  you  so  very  much  as  you  introduced  me  to  fourks,  (e)  will, 
these  remind  to  be  sane?  (/)  Fool  step!  Aletheometry?  Or  just 
zoot  doon  floon? 

Nut  it  out,  peeby  eye!  Onamassofmancynaves. 

But.  Top. 

You  were  in  the  same  boat  of  yourselves  too,  Getobodoff  or 
Treamplasurin;  and  you  receptionated  the  most  diliskious  of 
milisk;  which  it  all  flowowered  your  drooplin  dunlearies:  but 
dribble  a  drob  went  down  your  rothole.  Meaning,  Kelly,  Grimes, 
Phelan,  Mollanny,  O'Brien,  MacAlister,  Sealy,  Coyle,  Hynes- 
Joynes,  Naylar-Traynor,  Courcy  de  Courcy  and  Gilligan-Goll. 

Stunner  of  oddstodds  on  bluebleeding  boarhorse!  What 
soresen's  head  subrises  thus  tous  out  of  rumpumplikun  oak  with, 
well,  we  cannot  say  whom  we  are  looking  like  through  his  now- 
face.'^  It  is  of  Noggens  whilk  dusts  the  bothsides  of  the  seats  of  the 
bigslaps  of  the  bogchaps  of  the  porlarbaar  of  the  marringaar  of  the 
Lochlunn  gonlannludder  of  the  feof  of  the  foef  of  forfummed 
Ship-le-Zoyd. 

Boumce!  It  is  polisignstunter.  The  Sockerson  boy.  To  pump 
the  fire  of  the  lewd  into  those  soulths  of  bauchees,  havsouse- 
dovers,  tillfellthey  deadwar  knootvindict.  An  whele  time  he  was 
rancing  there  smutsy  floskons  nodunder  ycholerd  for  their 
poopishers,  ahull  onem  Fyre  maynoother  endnow!  Shatten  up 
ship!  Bouououmce!  Nomo  clandoilskins  cheakinlevers !  All 
ashored  for  Capolic  Gizzards!  Stowlaway  there,  glutany  of 

370 


stainks !  Porterfillyers  and  spirituous  suncksters,  oooom  oooom ! 

As  these  vitupetards  in  his  boasum  he  did  strongleholder, 
bushbrows,  nobblynape,  swinglyswanglers,  sunkentrunk,  that 
from  tin  of  this  clucken  hadded  runced  slapottleslup.  For  him 
had  hord  from  fard  a  piping.  As?  Of? 

Dour  douchy  was  a  sieguldson.  He  cooed  that  loud  nor  he 
was  young.  He  cud  bad  caw  nor  he  was  gray  Like  wather  parted 
from  the  say.  J 

Ostia,  lift  it!  Lift  at  it,  Ostia!  From  the  say !  Away  from  the  say! 

Himhim.  Himhim. 

Hearhasting  he,  himmed,  reromembered  all  the  chubbs,  chipps, 
chaffs,  chuckinpucks  and  chayney  chimebells  That  he  had  mistri- 
buted  in  port,  pub,  park,  pantry  and  poultryhouse.  While  they, 
thered,  the  others,  that  are,  were  most  emulously  concerned  to 
cupturing  the  last  dropes  of  summour  down  through  their 
grooves  of  blarneying.  Ere  the  sockson  locked  at  the  dure.  Which 
he  would,  shuttinshure.  And  lave  them  to  sture. 

For  be  all  rules  of  sport  'tis  right  That  youth  bedower'd  to 
charm  the  night  Whilst  age  is  dumped  to  mind  the  day  When 
wather  parted  from  the  say. 
cfy-  The  humming,  it's  coming.  Insway  onsway. 

Fingool  MacKishgmard  Obesume  Burgearse  Benefice,  He  was 
bowen  hem  and  scrapin  him  in  recolcitrantament  to  the  right- 
about And  these  probenopubblicoes  clamatising  for  an  extinsion 
on  his  hostillery  With  his  chargehand  bombing  their  eres.  Tids, 
genmen,  plays,  she  been  goin  shoother  off  almaynoother  on- 
awares. 

You  here  nort  farwellens  rouster?  Ashiffle  ashuffle  the  wayve 
they. 

From  Dancingtree  till  Suttonstone  There's  lads  no  lie  would! 
filch  a  crown  To  mull  their  sack  and  brew  their  tay  With  wather 
parted  from  the  say.  J 

Lelong  Awaindhoo's  a  selverbourne  enrouted  to  Rochelle 
Lane  and  liberties  those  Mullinguard  minstrelsers  are  marshal- 
sing,  par  tunepiped  road,  under  where,  perked  on  hollowy  hill,  that 
poor  man  of  Lyones,  good  Dook  Weltington,  hugon  come  er- 

371 


rindwards,  had  hircomed  to  the  belles  bows  and  been  cutat- 
trapped  by  the  mausers.  Now  is  it  town  again,  londmear  of  Dub- 
lin !  And  off  coursse  the  toller,  pies  the  dotter  of  his  eyes  with 
her:  Moke  the  Wanst,  whye  doe  we  aime  alike  a  pose  of  poeter 
peaced?  While  the  dumb  he  shoots  the  shopper  rope.  And  they 
all  pour  forth.  Sans  butly  Tuppeter  Sowyer,  the  rouged  engene- 
rand,  a  barttler  of  the  beauyne,  still  our  benjamin  liefest,  some- 
time franklin g  to  thise  citye,  whereas  bigrented  him  a  piers  half 
subporters  for  his  arms,  Josiah  Pipkin,  Amos  Love,  Raoul  Le  Feb- 
ber,  Blaize  Taboutot,  Jeremy  Yopp,  Francist  de  Loomis,  Hardy 
Smith  and  Sequin  Pettit  followed  by  the  snug  saloon  seanad  of 
our  Cafe  Beranger.  The  scenictutors. 

Because  they  wonted  to  get  out  by  the  goatweigh  afore  the  sheep 
was  looset  for  to  wish  the  Wobbleton  Whiteleg  Welshers  kailly- 
kailly  kellykekkle  and  savebeck  to  Brownhazelwood  from  all  the 
dinnasdoolins  on  the  labious  banks  of  their  swensewn  snewwes- 
ner,  turned  again  weastinghome,  by  Danesbury  Common,  and 
they  onely,  duoly,  thruely,  fairly  after  rainydraining  founty- 
buckets  (chalkem  up,  hemptyempty !)  till  they  caught  the  wind 
abroad  (alley  loafers  passinggeering !)  all  the  rockers  on  the 
roads  and  all  the  boots  in  the  stretes. 

Oh  dere!  Ah  hoy! 

Last  ye,  lundsmin,  hasty  hosty!  For  an  anondation  of  miri- 
fication  and  the  lutification  of  our  paludination. 

His  bludgeon's  bruk,  his  drum  is  tore.  For  spuds  we'll  keep  the 
hat  he  wore  And  roll  in  clover  on  his  clay  By  wather  parted 
from  the  say. 

Hray !  Free  rogue  Mountone  till  Dew  Mild  Well  to  corry  awen 
and  glowry!  Are  now  met  by  Brownaboy  Fuinnninuinn's  former 
for  a  lyncheon  partyng  of  his  burgherbooh.  The  Shanavan 
Wacht.  Rantinroarin  Batteries  Dorans.  And  that  whistling  thief, 
O'  Ryne  O'Rann.  With  a  catch  of  her  cunning  like  and  nowhere 
a  keener. 

The  for  eolders  were  aspolootly  at  their  wetsend  in  the  mailing 
waters,  trying  to.  Hide!  Seek!  Hide!  Seek!  Because  number  one 
lived  at  Bothersby  North  and  he  was  trying  to.  Hide!  Seek!  Hide! 

372 


Seek!  And  number  two  digged  up  Poors  Coort,  Soother,  trying 
to.  Hide!  Seek!  Hide!  Seek!  And  nomber  three  he  sleeped  with 
Lilly  Tekkles  at  The  Eats  and  he  was  trying  to.  Hide!  Seek! 
Hide!  Seek!  And  the  last  with  the  sailalloyd  donggie  he  was 
berthed  on  the  Moherboher  to  the  Washte  and  they  were  all  try- 
ing to  and  baffling  with  the  waiters  of,  hoompsydoompsy  waiters 
of.  High!  Sink!  High!  Sink!  Highohigh!  Sinkasink! 
Waves. 

The  gangstairs  strain  and  anger's  up  As  Hoisty  rares  the  can 
and  cup  To  speed  the  bogre's  barque  away  O'er  wather  parted 
from  the  say. 

Horkus  chiefest  ebblynuncies ! 

—  He  shook  be  ashaped  of  hempshelves,  hiding  that  shepe  in 
his  goat.  And  for  rassembling  so  bearfellsed  the  magreedy 
prince  of  Roger.  Thuthud.  Heigh  hohse,  heigh  hohse,  our  kin- 
dom  from  an  orse!  Bruni  Lanno's  woollies  on  Brani  Lonni's 
hairyparts.  And  the  hunk  in  his  trunk  it  would  be  an  insalt  foul 
the  matter  of  that  cellaring  to  a  pigstrough.  Stop  his  laysense. 
Ink  him !  You  would  think  him  Alddaublin  staking  his  lordsure  like 
a  gourd  on  puncheon.  Deblinity  devined.  Wholehunting  the  pairk 
on  a  methylogical  mission  whenever  theres  imberillas !  And  call- 
ing Rina  Roner  Reinette  Ronayne.  To  what  mine  answer  is  a 
lemans.  Arderleys,  beedles  and  postbillers  heard  him.  Three 
points  to  one.  Ericus  Vericus  corrupted  into  ware  eggs.  Dummy 
up,  distillery!  Broree  aboo!  Run  him  a  johnsgate  down  jameses- 
lane.  Begetting  a  wife  which  begame  his  niece  by  pouring  her 
youngthings  into  skintighs.  That  was  when  he  had  dizzy  spells. 
Till  Gladstools  Pillools  made  him  ride  as  the  mall.  Thanks  to  his 
huedobrass  beerd.  Lodenbroke  the  Longman,  now  he  canseels 
under  veerious  persons  but  is  always  that  Rorke  relly!  On  con- 
sideration for  the  musickers  he  ought  to  have  down  it.  Pass  out 
your  cheeks,  why  daunt  you!  Penalty,  please!  There  you'll  know 
how  warder  barded  the  bollhead  that  parssed  our  alley.  We  just 
are  upsidedown  singing  what  ever  the  dimkims  mummur  alla- 
lilty  she  pulls  inner  out  heads.  This  is  not  the  end  of  this  by  no 
manners  means.  When  you've  bled  till  you're  bone  it  crops  out 

373 


in  your  flesh.  To  tell  how  your  mead  of,  mard,  is  made  of.  All  old 
Dadgerson's  dodges  one  conning  one's  copying  and  that's  what 
wonderland's  wanderlad'll  flaunt  to  the  fair.  A  trancedone  boy- 
script  with  tittivits  by.  Ahem.  You'll  read  it  tomorrow,  marn, 
when  the  curds  on  the  table.  A  nigg  for  a  nogg  and  a  thrate  for 
a  throte.  The  auditor  learns.  Still  pumping  on  Torkenwhite  Rad- 
lumps,  Lencs.  In  preplays  to  Anonymay's  left  hinted  palinode 
obviously  inspiterebbed  by  a  sibspecious  connexion.  Note  the 
notes  of  admiration!  See  the  signs  of  suspicion!  Count  the  hemi- 
semidemicolons !  Screamer  caps  and  invented  gommas,  quoites 
puntlost,  forced  to  farce !  The  pipette  will  say  anything  at  all  for 
a  change.  And  you  know  what  aglove  means  in  the  Murdrus  due- 
luct !  Fewer  to  feud  and  rompant  culotticism,  a  fugle  for  the  glee- 
men  and  save,  sit  and  sew.  And  a  pants  outsizinned  on  the 
Doughertys'  duckboard  pointing  to  peace  at  home.  In  some, 
lawanorder  on  lovinardor.  Wait  till  we  hear  the  Boy  of  Biskop 
reeling  around  your  postoral  lector!  Epistlemadethemology  for 
deep  dorfy  doubtlings.  As  we'll  lay  till  break  of  day  in  the  bunk  of 
basky,  O!  Our  island,  Rome  and  duty!  Well  tried,  buckstiff!  Batt 
in,  boot !  Sell  him  a  breach  contact,  the  vendoror,  the  buylawyer ! 
One  hyde,  sack,  hie!  Two  stick  hoist.  Lucky!  Finnish  Make  Goal! 
First  you  were  Nomad,  next  you  were  Namar,  now  you're  Nu- 
mah  and  it's  soon  you'll  be  Nomon.  Hence  counsels  Ecclesiast. 
There's  every  resumption.  The  forgein  ofhls  is  on  the  shove  to 
lay  you  out  dossier.  Darby's  in  the  yard,  planning  it  on  you,  plot 
and  edgings,  the  whispering  peeler  after  cooks  wearing  an  infor- 
mation. The  find  of  his  kind !  An  artist,  sir !  And  dirt  cheap  at 
a  sovereign  a  skull!  He  knows  his  Finsbury  Follies  backwoods 
so  you  batter  see  to  your  regent  refutation.  Ascare  winde  is  rifing 
again  about  nice  boys  going  native.  You  know  who  was  wrote 
about  in  the  Orange  Book  of  Estchapel?  Basil  and  the  two  other 
men  from  King's  Avenance.  Just  press  this  cold  brand  against 
your  brow  for  a  mow.  Gainfully!  The  sinus  the  curse.  That's  it. 
Hung  Ghung  Egglyfella  now  speak  he  tell  numptywumpty  top- 
sawys  belongahim  pidgin.  Secret  things  other  persons  place  there 
covered  not.  How  you  fell  from  story  to  story  like  a  sagasand 

374 


far 


to  lie.  Enfilmung  infirmity.  On  the  because  alleging  to  having  a 
finger^  fudding  in  pudding  and  pie.  And  here's  the  witnesses. 
Glue  on  to  him,  Greevy!  Bottom  anker,  Noordeece!  And  kick 
kick  killykick  for  the  house  that  juke  built!  Wait  till  they  send 
you  to  sleep,  scowpow!  By  jurors'  cruces!  Then  old  Hunphy- 
dunphyville'll  be  blasted  to  bumboards  by  the  youthful  herald 
who  would  once  you  were.  He'd  be  our  chosen  one  in  the  matter 
of  Brittas  more  than  anarthur.  But  we'll  wake  and  see.  The  wholes 
poors  riches  of  ours  hundreds  of  manhoods  and  womhoods.  Two      ^  ^yiiAJj<- 
cents,  two  mills  and  two  myrds.  And  it's  all  us  rangers  you'll  be       fti  f^'^ 
facing  in  the  box  before  the  twelfth  correctional.  Like  one  man, 
gell.  Between  all  the  Misses  Mountsackvilles  in  their  halfmoon 
haemicycles,  gasping  to  giddies  to  dye  for  the  shame.  Just  hold 
hard  till  the  one  we  leapt  out  gets  her  yearing!  Hired  in  cameras, 
extra!  With  His  Honour  Surpacker  on  the  binge.  So  yelp  your 
guilt  and  kitz  the  buck.  You'll  have  loss  of  fame  from  Wimme- 
^ame's  fake.  Forwards !  One  bully  son  growing  the  goff  and  his 
twinger  read  out  by  the^Nazi  Priers.  You  fought  as  how  they'd 
never  woxen  up,  did  you,  crucket.'^  It  will  wecker  your  earse,  that 
itwiUl!  When  hives  the  court  to  exchequer  'tis  the  child  which 
gives  the  sire  away.  Good  for  you,  Richmond  Rover!  Scrum 
around,  our  side!  Let  him  have  another  between  the  spindlers!  A 
grand  game!  Dalymount's  decisive.  Don  Gouverneur  Buckley's         ^  jl^^^jC 
in  the  Tara  Tribune,  sporting  the  insides  of  a  Rhutian  Jhanaral  ^"^^trS^^ 
and  little  Mrs  Ex-Skaerer-Sissers  is  bribing  the  halfpricers  to  pray  ^^^^ 
for  her  widower  in  his  gravest  embazzlement.  You  on  her,  hosy    >  * 
jigses,  that'll  be  some  nonstop  marrimont!  You  in  your  stolen     l'1^^6?  S 
mace  and  anvil,  Magnes,  and  her  burrowed  in  Berkness  cirrchus  ^^,^J^.^^k^^.J^ 
clouthses.  Fummuccumul  with  a  graneen  aveiled.  Playing  down 
the  slavey  touch.  Much  as  she  was  when  the  fancy  cutter  out  col-  ,  ^ 

lecting  milestones  espied  her  aseesaw  on  a  fern.  So  nimb,  he  said, 
a  dat  of  dew.  Between  Furr-y-Benn  and  Ferr-y-Bree.  In  this  tear 
Vikloe  vich  he  lofed.  The  smiling  ever.  If  you  pulls  me  over  pay 
me,  prhyse  !  A  talor  would  adapt  his  caulking  trudgers  on  to  any 
shape  at  see^Address^  deceitfold  of  wovens  weard.  The  wonder 
of  the  women  of  the  world  together,  moya!  And  the  lovablest 


375 

3 


Lima  since  Ineen  MacCormick  MacCoort  MacConn  O'Puckins 
MacKundred.  Only  but  she  is  a  little  width  wider  got.  Be  moving 
abog.  You  cannot  make  a  limousine  lady  out  of  a  hillman  minx.  ^(Pf 
Listun  till  you'll  hear  the  Mudquirt  accent.  This  is  a  bulgen 
heresies,  this  is  wollan  indulgencies,  this  is  a  flemsh.\Tik^  Scapu- 
lars, beads  and  a  stump  of  a  candle,  Hubert  was  a  Hunter,  chemins 
I  f  de  la  croixes  and  Rosairette's  e_ggj,all  the  trimmings  off  the  tree 
that  she  picked  up  after  the  Clontarf  voterloost  when  O' Bryan 
MacBruiser  bet  Norris  Nobnut.  Becracking  his  cucconut  be- 
tween his  kknneess.  Umpthump,  Here  Inkeeper,  it's  the  doater- 
een's  wednessmorn!  Delphin  dringing!  Grusham  undergang! 
And  the  Real  Hymemians  strenging  strong  at  knocker  knocker! 
Holy  and  massalltolled.  You  ought  to  tak  a  dos  of  frut.  JiL' 
Sauss.  You're  getting  hoovier,  a  twelve  stone  hoovier,  fullends 
a  twelve  stone  hoovier,  in  your  corpus  entis  and  it  scurves  you 
right,  demnye!  Aunt  as  unclish  ams  they  make  oom.  ButNichtia 
\  f\,  frxt'  you  bound  not  to  loose's  gone  on  Neffin  since  she  clapped  her 
charmer  on  him  at  Gormagareen.  At  the  Gifting  Munting  Hunt- 
ing Putting.  The  eitch  is  in  her  blood,  arrah !  For  a  frecklesome 
freshcheeky  sweetworded  lupsqueezer.  And  he  shows  how  he'll 
pick  him  the  lock  of  her  fancy.  Poghue!  Poghue!  Poghue!  And 
a  good  jump,  Powell !  Clean  over  all  their  heads.  We  could  kiss 
him  for  that  one,  couddled  we,  Huggins?  Sparkes  is  the  footer^ 
^^•2-  (  '  J^^  hance  off  nancies.  Scaldhead,  pursue !  Before  you  bunkledoodle 
down  upon  your  birchentop  again  after  them  three  blows  from 
time,  drink  and  hurry.  The  same  three  that  nursed  you.  Skerry, 
Badbols  and  the  Grey  One.  All  of  your  own  club  too.  With  the 
fistful  of  burryberries  were  for  the  massus  for  to  feed  you  living 
in  dying.  Buy  bran  biscuits  and  you'll  never  say  dog.  And  be 
in  the  finest  of  companies.  Morialtay  and  Kniferope  Walker  and 
Rowley  the  Barrel.  With  Longbow  of  the  lie.  Slick  of  the  trick 
and  Blennercassel  of  the  brogue.  Clanruckard  for  ever!  The 
Fenn,  the  Fenn,  the  k inn  of  all  Fenns!  Deaf  to  the  winds  when 
for  Croonacreena.  Fisht!  And  it's  not  now  saying  how  we  are 
where  who's  softing  what  rushes.  Merryvirgin  forbed!  But  of 
they  never  eat  soullfriede  they're  ating  it  now.  With  easter 

376 


■rrr  i^f 


p 


greeding.  Angus!  Angus!  Angus!  The  keykeeper  of  the  keys  of 
the  jesj^n  doors  of  the  dreamadoory  in  the  house  of  the  house- 
hold^ of  ^tjecech^)saysaith.  Whitmore,  whatmore?  Give  it  over, 
give  it  up!  Mawgraw!  Head  of  a  helo,  chesth  of  champgnon, 
of  a  gull!  What  you'd  if  he'd.  The  groom  is  in  the  greenhouse, 
gattling  out  his.  Gun!  That  lad's  the  style  for.  Lannigan's  ball! 
Now  a  drive  on  the  naval!  The  Shallburn  Shock.  Never  mind 
k/^eyour  gibbous.  Slip  on  your  ropen  collar  and  draw  the  noosebag 
on  your  head.  Nobody  will  know  or  heed  you,  Postumus,  if  you 
skip  round  schlymartin  by  the  back  and  come  front  sloomutren 
to  beg  in  one  of  the  shavers'  sailorsuits.  Three  climbs  three- 
quickenthrees  in  the  garb  of  nine.  We'll  split  to  see  you  mouldem 
imparvious.  A  wing  for  oldboy  Welsey  Wandrer!  Well  spat, 
witty  wagtail!  Now  piawn  to  bishop's  forthe!  Moove.  There's 
Mumblesome  Wadding  Murch  cranking  up  to  the  hornemooni- 
um.  Drawg  us  out  Ivy  Eve  in  the  Hall  of  Alum !  The  finnecies  of 
j)oetry  wed  music.  Feeling  the  jitters?  You'll  be  as  tight  as  Trivett 
when  the  knot's  knutted  on.  Now's  your  never !  JPgena  and,  p 
^^ueena  are  duetting  a  giggle-for-giggle  and  the  brideen  Alan- 
nah  is  lost  in  her  diamindwaiting.  What  a  magnificent  gesture  j 
you  will  show  us  this  gallus  day.  Clean  and  easy,  be  the  hooker  !^  PGl.  ® 
And  a  free  for  croaks  after.  Dovlen  are  out  for  it.  So  is  Rathfinn. 
And,  hike,  here's  the  hearse  and  four  horses  with  the  interpro- 
vincial  crucifixioners  throwing  lots  inside  to  know  whose  to  be 
their  gosson  and  whereas  to  brake  the  news  to  morhor.  How 
