
^  Ex  jup  pep  off  Carpenger  Strate.  The  kids'  and  dolls'  home.  Makeacake- 
ache. 

^  A  vagrant  need  is  a  flagrant  weed. 

^  Grand  for  blowing  off  steam  when  you  walk  up  in  the  morning. 
*  At  the  foot  of  Bagnabun  Banbasday  was  lost  on  one. 
^  We're  all  found  of  our  anmal  matter. 


294 


ft/ 

ml 


The  Vegetable 
\Cell  and  its  Pri- 
vate Properties, 


^he  haves  and 
le  havenots:  a 
Istinction, 


homolocous  humminbass  hesterdie  and  ist- 
herdie  forivor.^  Vanissas  Vanistatums !  And 
for  a  night  of  thoughtsendyures  and  a  day.  As 
Great  Shapesphere  puns  it.  In  effect,  I  re- 
mumble,  from  the  yules  gone  by,  purr  lil  mur- 
rerof  myhind,  so  she  used  indeed.  When  she 
give  me  the  Sundaclouths  she  hung  up  for 
Tate  and  Comyng  and  snuffed  out  the  ghost 
in  the  candle  at  his  old  game  of  haunt  the 
sleepper.  Faithful  departed.  When  Fm  dream- 
ing back  like  that  I  begins  to  see  we're  only 
all  telescopes.  Or  the  comeallyoum  saunds. 
Like  when  I  dromed  I  was  in  Dairy  and  was 
wuckened  up  with  thump  in  thudderdown. 
Rest  in  peace!  But  to  return.^  What  a  wonder- 
ful memory  you  have  too!  Twonderful 
morrowy !  Straorbinaire !  Bene!  I  bring  town 
eau  and  curry  nothung  up  my  sleeve.  Now, 
springing  quickenly  from  the  mudland  Loosh 
from  Luccan  with  AUhim  as  her  Elder  tetra- 
turn  a  somersault.  All's  fair  on  all  fours,  as 
my  instructor  unstrict  me.  Watch !  And  you'll 
have  the  whole  inkle.  Allow,  allow!  Gyre  O, 
gyre  O,  gyrotundo!  Hop  lala!  As  umpty 
herum  as  you  seat!  O,  dear  me,  that  was  very 
nesse!  Very  nace  indeed!  And  makes  us  a 
daintical  pair  of  accomplasses !  You,  alius  for 
the  kunst  and  me  for  omething  with  a  handel 
to  it.  Bevel  Now,  as  will  pressantly  be  felt, 
there's  tew  tricklesome  poinds  where  our 
twain  of  doubling  bicirculars,  mating  approxe- 
metely  in  their  suite  poi  and  poi,  dunloop 
into  eath  the  ocher.  Lucihere. !  I  fee  where  you 


^  Sewing  up  the  beillybursts  in  their  buckskin  shiorts  for  big  Kapitayn 
Killykook  and  the  Jukes  of  Kelleiney. 

2  Say  where !  A  timbrelfill  of  twinkletinkle. 


Zweispaltung  as 
Fundemaintalish 
of  IViederher- 
stellung. 


mea.  The  doubleviewed  seeds.  Nun,  lemmas 
quatsch,  vide  pervoys  akstiom,  and  I  think  as 
Fm  suqeez  in  the  limon,  stickme  punctum,  but 
for  semenal  rations  I'd  likelong,  by  Araxes, 
to  mack  a  capital  Pee  for  Pride  down  there 
on  the  batom^  where  Hoddum  and  Heave,  our 
monsterbilker,  balked  his  bawd  of  parodies. 
And  let  you  go,  Airmienious,  and  mick  your 
modest  mock  Pie  out  of  Humbles  up  your 
end.  Where  your  apexojesus  will  be  a  point 
of  order.  With  a  geing  groan  grunt  and  a 
croak  click  cluck.^  And  my  faceage  kink  and 
kurkle  trying  to  make  keek  peep.^  Are  you 
right  there,  Michael,  are  you  right.'^  Do  you 
think  you  can  hold  on  by  sitting  tight.'^  Well, 
of  course,  it's  awful  angelous.  Still  I  don't  feel 
it's  so  dangelous.  Ay,  I'm  right  here.  Nickel, 
and  I'll  write.  Singing  the  top  line  why  it 
suits  me  mikey  fine.  But,  yaghags  hogwarts 
and  arrahquinonthiance,  it's  the  muddest  thick 
that  was  ever  heard  dump  since  Eggsmather 
got  smothered  in  the  plap  of  the  pfan.  Now, 
to  compleat  anglers,  beloved  bironthiarn  and 
hushtokan  hishtakatsch,  join  alfa  pea  and 
pull  loose  by  dotties  and,  to  be  more 
sparematically  logoical,  eelpie  and  paleale  by 
trunkles.  Alow  me  align  while  I  encloud 
especious!  The  Nike  done  it.  Like  pah,'*  I  peh. 
Innate  little  bondery.  And  as  plane  as  a  poke 
stifT.^  Now,  aqua  in  buccal.  I'll  make  you  to 
see  figuratleavely  the  whome  of  your  eternal 


^  Parsee  ffrench  for  the  upholdsterer  would  be  delightered. 
2  I'll  pass  out  if  the  screw  spliss  his  strut. 

^  Thargam  then  goeligum?  If  you  sink  I  can,  swimford.  Suksumkale 
*  Hasitatense? 

^  The  impudence  of  that  in  girl's  things! 

296 


jlm 


hi 


Destiny i  In- 
fluence of Design 
upon. 


Prometheus  or 
the  Promise  of 
Provision, 


geomater.  And  if  you  flung  her  headdress  on 
her  from  under  her  highlows  you'd  wheeze 
whyse  Salmonson  set  his  seel  on  a  hexen- 
gown.i  Hissssl,  Arrah,  go  on!  Fin  for  fun! 
You've  spat  your  shower  like  a  son  of  Sibernia 
but  let's  have  at  it!  Subtend  to  me  now!  Pisk! 
Outer  serpumstances  beiug  ekewilled,  we  care- 
fully, if  she  pleats,  lift  by  her  seam  hem  and 
jabote  at  the  spidsiest  of  her  trickkikant  (like 
thousands  done  before  since  fillies  calpered. 
Ocone !  Ocone !)  the  maidsapron  of  our  A.L.P., 
fearfully !  till  its  nether  nadir  is  vortically  where 
(allow  me  aright  to  two  cute  winkles)  its  naval's 
napex  will  have  to  beandbe.  You  must  proach 
near  mear  for  at  is  dark.  Lob.  And  light 
your  mech.  Jeldy !  And  this  is  what  you'll  say.^ 
Waaaaaa.  Tch !  Sluice  1  Pla  1  And  their,  redneck, 
(for  addn't  we  to  gayatsee  with  Puhl  the  Pun- 
kah's bell?)  mygh  and  thy,  the  living  spit  of 
dead  waters,^  fastness  firm  of  Hurdlebury  Fenn, 
discinct  and  isoplural  in  its  (your  sow  to 
the  duble)  sixuous  parts,  flument,  fluvey  and 
fluteous,  midden  wedge  of  the  stream's  your 
muddy  old  triagonal  delta,  fiho  miho,  plain 
for  you  now,  appia  lippia  pluvaville,  (hop  the 
hula,  girls  1)  the  no  niggard  spot  of  her  safety 
vulve,  first  of  all  usquiluteral  threeingles,  (and 
why  wouldn't  she  sit  cressloggedlike  the  lass 
that  lured  a  tailor.^)  the  constant  of  fluxion, 
Mahamewetma,  pride  of  the  province^  and 
when  that  tidied  boare  rutches  up  from  the 
Afrantic,  allaph  quaran's  his  bett  und  bier!^ 

^  The  chape  of  Dona  Speranza  of  the  Nacion. 
2  Ugol  egal  ogle.  Mi  vidim  Mi. 
^  It  is,  it  is  Sangannon's  dream. 
*  And  all  meinkind. 

^  Whangpoos  the  paddle  and  whiss  whee  whoo. 
297 


Ambages  and 
Their  Role, 


Ecclasiasdcal 
and  Celestial 
Hierarchies.  The 
Ascending.  The 
Descending. 


The  peripatetic 
periphery.  Its 
Alio  thesis. 


Paa  lickam  laa  lickam,  apl  Ipa!  This  it  is  an  her. 
You  see  her  it.  Which  it  whom  you  see  it  is 
her.  And  if  you  could  goaneggbetter  we'd  soon 
see  some  raffant  scrumala  riffa.  Quicks  herit 
fossyending.  Quef !  So  post  that  to  your  pape 
and  smarket !  And  you  can  haul  up  that  languil 
pennant,  mate.  Fve  read  your  tune's  dimissage. 
For,  let  it  be  taken  that  her  littlenist  is  of  no 
magnetude  or  again  let  it  be  granted  that  Doll 
the  laziest  can  be  dissimulant  with  all  respects 
from  Doll  the  fiercst,  thence  must  any  what- 
youlike  in  the  power  of  empthood  be  either 

greater  THa  N  or  less  THaN  the  unitate  we 
have  in  one  or  hence  shall  the  vectorious  ready- 
eyes  of  evertwo  circumflicksrent  searclhers 
never  film  in  the  elipsities  of  their  gyribouts 
those  fickers  which  are  returnally  reprodictive 
of  themselves.^  Which  is  unpassible.  Quarrel- 
lary.  The  logos  of  somewome  to  that  base  any- 
thing, when  most  characteristically  mantissa 
minus,  comes  to  nullum  in  the  endth:-  orso, 
here  is  nowet  badder  than  the  sin  of  Aha  with 
his  cosin  Lil,  verswaysed  on  coverswised,  and 
all  that's  consecants  and  cotangincies  till  Per- 
perp  stops  repippinghim  since  her  redtangles 
are  all  abscissan  for  limitsing  this  tendency  of 
our  Frivulteeny  Sexuagesima^  to  expense  her- 
selfs  as  sphere  as  possible,  paradismic  peri- 
mutter,  in  all  directions  on  the  bend  of  the 
unbridalled,  the  inflnisissimalls  of  her  facets 
becoming  manier  and  manier  as  the  calicolum 
of  her  umdescribables  (one  has  thoughts  of 
that  eternal  Rome)  shrinks  from  schurtiness 

*  I  enjoy  as  good  as  anyone. 

*  Neither  a  soul  to  be  saved  nor  a  body  to  be  kicked. 
^  The  boast  of  the  town. 

298 


f; 
0, 
fl 


Canine  Venus 
sublimated  to 
Aulidic 
Aphrodite, 


Exclusivism:  the 
Ors,  Sors  and 
Fors^  which^ 


to  scherts.^  Scholium,  there  are  trist  sigheds  to 
everysing  but  ichs  on  the  freed  brings  euchs  to 
the  feared.  Qued?  Mother  of  us  all!  O,  dear 
me,  look  at  that  now!  I  don't  know  is  it  your 
spictre  or  my  omination  but  Fm  glad  you 
dimentioned  it!  My  Lourde!  My  Lourde!  If 
that  aint  just  the  beatenest  lay  I  ever  see!  And 
a  superpbosition!  Quoint  a  quincidence!  O.K. 
Omnius  Kollidimus,  As  Ollover  Krumwall 
sayed  when  he  slepped  ueber  his  grannya- 
mother.  Kangaroose  feathers.  Who  in  the  name 
of  thunder'd  ever  belevin  you  were  that  bolt.^ 
But  you're  holy  mooxed  and  gaping  up  the 
wrong  palce^  as  if  you  was  seeheeing  the  gheist 
that  stays  forenenst,  you  blessed  simpletop 
domefool!  Where's  your  belested  loiternan's 
lamp?  You  must  lap  wandret  down  the  bluish- 
ing  refluction  below.  Her  trunk's  not  her  brain- 
box.  Hear  where  the  bolgylines,  Yseen  here  the 
puncture.  So  he  done  it.  Luck!  See  her  good. 
Well,  well,  well,  well!  O  dee,  O  dee,  that's 
very  lovely !  We  like  Simperspreach  Hammel- 
tones  to  fellow  Selver tunes  O'Haggans.^  When 
he  rolls  over  his  ars  and  shows  the  hise  of  his 
heels.  Vely  lovely  entilely!  Like  a  yangsheep- 
slang  with  the  tsifengtse.  So  analytical  plaus- 
ible !  And  be  the  powers  of  Moll  Kelly,  neigh- 
bour topsowyer,  it  will  be  a  lozenge  to  me  all 
my  lauffe.*  More  better  twofeller  we  been  speak 
copperads.  Ever  thought  about  Guinness's.^ 
And  the  regrettable  Parson  Rome's  advice.'^ 

^  Hen's  bens,  are  we  soddy  we  missiled  her? 
^  I  call  that  a  scumhead. 

^  Pure  chingchong  idiotism  with  any  way  words  all  in  one  soluble.  Gee 
each  owe  tea  eye  smells  fish.  That's  U. 

*The  Doodles  family,  PI,  A  ,  O  ,  A,  C.  Hoodie  doodle, 
fam.? 


299 


Primanouriture 
and  Ultimo- 
geniture, 


No  Sturm,  No 
Drang. 


Want  to  join  the  police.^  You  know,  you  were 
always  one  of  the  bright  ones,  since  a  foot 
made  you  an  unmentionable,  fakes !  You  know, 
you're  the  divver's  own  smart  gossoon,  aequal 
to  yoursell  and  wanigel  to  anglyother,  so  you 
are,  hoax!  You  know,  you'll  be  dampned,  so 
you  will,  one  of  these  invernal  days  but  you 
will  be,  carrotty!^ 

Wherapool,  gayet  that  when  he  stop  look 
time  he  stop  long  ground  who  here  hurry  he 
would  have  ever  the  lothst  word,  with  a  sweet 
me  ah  err  eye  ear  marie  to  reat  from  the  jacob's^ 
and  a  shypull  for  toothsake  of  his  armjaws 
at  the  slidepage  of  de  Vere  Foster,  would  and 
could  candykissing  P.  Kevin  to  fress  up  the 
rinnerung  and  to  ate  by  hart  (Jeo  I  read,  such  a 
Spanish,  escribibis^  all  your  mycoscoups)  wont 
to  nibbleh  ravenostonnoriously  ihs  mum  to 
me  in  bewonderment  of  his  chipper  chuthor 
for,  while  that  Other  by  the  halp  of  his  creac- 
tive  mind  offered  to  deleberate  the  mass  from 
the  booty  of  fight  our  Same  with  the  holp 
of  the  bounty  of  food  sought  to  delubberate 
the  mess  from  his  corructive  mund,  with  his 
muffetee  cuffes  ownconsciously  grafficking 
with  his  sinister  cyclopes  after  trigamies  and 
spirals'  wobbles  pursuiting  their  rovinghamil- 
ton  selves  and  godolphing  in  fairlove  to  see 
around  the  waste  of  noland's  browne  jesus* 
(thur  him  no  quartos  I)  till  that  on  him  poorin 
sweat  the  juggaleer's  veins  (quench  his  quill!) 
in  his  napier  scrag  stud  out  bursthright  tam- 


SICK  us  A 

SOCK  WITH 
SOME  SEDI- 
MENT IN  IT 
FOR  THE 
SAKE  OF  OUR 
DARNING 
WIVES. 


^  Picking  on  Nickagain,  Pikey  Mikey? 

2  Early  morning,  sir  Dav  Stephens,  said  the  First  Gentleman  in  youreups, 

^  Bag  bag  blockcheap,  have  you  any  will? 

*  What  a  lubberly  whide  elephant  for  the  men-in-the  straits! 


300 


I 


Ik 


I 
I 


hi 


h 
kl 


Illustration.  quam  taughtropes.  (Spry  him!  call  a  blood- 

lekar!  Where's  Dr  Brassenaarse?)  Es  war  itwas 
in  his  priesterrite.  O  He  Must  Suffer!  From  this 
misbelieving  feacemaker  to  his  noncredible 
fancyflame.i  Ask  for  bosthoon,  late  for  Mass, 
pray  for  blaablaablack  sheep.  (Sure  you  could 
Wright  anny  pippap  passage,  Eye  bet,  as  foyne 
as  that  moultylousy  Erewhig,  yerself,  mick! 
Nock  the  muddy  nickers  Christ's  Church 
varses  Bellial!)  Dear  and  he  went  on  to  scripple 
Ascription  of  the  gentlemine  born,  milady  bread,  he  would  pen 
Active,  for  her,  he  would  pine  for  her,^  how  he  would 

patpun  fun  for  all*  with  his  frolicky  frowner 
so  and  his  glumsome  grinner  otherso.  And  how 
are  you,  waggy?^  My  animal  his  sorrafool! 
And  trieste,  ah  trieste  ate  I  my  liver!  Se  non  e 
vero  son  trovatore,  O  jerry!  He  was  soso,  harriot 
all!  He  was  sadfellow,  steifel!  He  was  mister- 
mysterion.  Like  a  purate  out  of  pensionee  with 
a  gouvernament  job.  All  moanday,  tearsday, 
wailsday,  thumpsday,  frightday,  shatterday  till 
the  fear  of  the  Law.  Look  at  this  twitches! 
He  was  quisquis,  floored  on  his  plankraft  of 
shittim  wood.  Look  at  him!  Sink  deep  or 
touch  not  the  Cartesian  spring!  Want  more 
ashes,  griper.'^  How  diesmal  he  was  lying  low 
on  his  rawside  laying  siege  to  goblin  castle. 
And,  bezouts  that,  how  hyenesmeal  he  was 
laying  him  long  on  his  laughside  lying  sack 
to  croakpartridge.  (Be  thou  wars  Rolaf 's  intes- 


Proscription  of 
the  Passive, 


^  And  she  had  to  seek  a  pond's  apeace  to  salve  her  suiterkins.  Sued ! 

2  Excuse  theyre  christianbrothers  irish? 

^  When  she  tripped  against  the  briery  bush  he  profused  her  allover  with 
curtsey  flowers. 

*  A  nastilow  disigraible  game. 

^  Dear  old  Erosmas.  Very  glad  you  are  going  to  Penmark.  Write  to  the 
comer.  Grunny  Grant. 


Ensouling  Fe- 
male Sustains 


man. 


tions,  quoths  the  Bhagavat  biskop  Leech)  Ann 
opes  tipoo  soon  ear!  If  you  could  me  lendtill 
my  pascol's  kondyl,  sahib,  and  the  price  of  a 
plate  of  poultice.  Punked.  With  best  apolojigs 
and  merrymoney  thanks  to  self  for  all  the 
clerricals  and  again  begs  guerdon  for  bistris- 
pissing  on  your  bunificence.  Well  wiggy- 
Agonising  Over-  wiggywagtail,  and  how  are  you,  yaggy?  With 
a  capital  Tea  for  Thirst.  From  here  Buvard  to 
dear  Picuchet.  Blott. 

Now,  (peel  your  eyes,  my  gins,  and  brush 
your  saton  hat,  me  elementator  joyclid,  son  of 
a  Butt!  She's  mine,  Jow  low  jure,^  be  Skibber- 
ing's  eagles,  sweet  tart  of  Whiteknees  Arch- 
way) watch  him,  having  caught  at  the  bi- 
furking  calamum  in  his  bolsillos,  the  onelike 
underworp  he  had  ever  funnet  without  diffi- 
cultads,  the  aboleshqvick,  signing  away  in 
happinext  complete,  (Exquisite  Game  of  in- 
spiration !  I  always  adored  your  hand.  So  could 
I  too  and  without  the  scrope  of  a  pen.  Ohr  for 
oral,  key  for  crib,  olchedolche  and  a  lunge  ad 
lib.  Can  you  write  us  a  last  line.'^  From  Smith- 
Jones-Orbison.'^)  intrieatedly  in  years,  jirry- 
alimpaloop.  And  i  Romain,  hup  u  bn  gd  grl.^ 
Unds  alws  my  thts.  To  fallthere  at  bare  feet 
hurryaswormarose.  Two  dies  of  one  raffle- 
ment.  Eche  bennyache.  Outstamp  and  dis- 
tribute him  at  the  expanse  of  his  society.  To 
be  continued.  Anon. 

And  ook,  ook,  ook,  fanky!  All  the  charic- 
tures^  in  the  drame!  This  is  how  San  holy- 


Sesama  to  the 
Rescues,  The 
Key  Signature 


WHEN  THE 
ANSWERER 
IS  A  LEMAN. 


ALL  SQUARE 
AND 


*  I  loved  to  see  tlie  Macbeths  Jerseys  knacking  spots  of  the  Plumpduffs 
Pants. 

2  Lifp  year  fends  you  all  and  moe,  fouvenirs  foft  as  fummer  fnow,  fweet 
willings  and  forget-uf-knots. 
^  Gag  his  tubes  yourself. 

302 


II 


tk 


Force  Centres  of 
the  Fire  Serpen- 
tine: hearty 
throaty  navely 
spleeny  sacraly 
fontanellay  inter- 
temporal eye. 

Conception  of  the 
Compromise  and 
Finding  of  a 
Formula, 


n 


Ideal  Present 
Alone  Produces 
Real  Future, 


polypools.  And  this,  pardonsky!  is  the  way 
Romeopullupalleaps.^  Pose  the  pen,  man, 
way  me  does.  Way  ole  missa  vellatooth  fust 
show  me  how.  Fourth  power  to  her  illpogue! 
Bould  strokes  for  your  life !  Tip !  This  is  Steal, 
this  is  Barke,  this  is  Starn,  this  is  Swhipt,  this  is 
Wiles,  this  is  Pshaw,  this  is  Doubbllinnbbay- 
yates.2  This  is  brave  Danny  weeping  his  spache 
for  the  popers.  This  is  cool  Connolly  wiping 
his  hearth  with  brave  Danny.  And  this,  regard ! 
how  Chawleses  Skewered  parparaparnelligoes 
between  brave  Danny  boy  and  the  Connolly. 
Upanishadem !  Top.  Spoken  hath  L'arty  Ma- 
gory.  Eregobragh.  Prouf  !^ 

And  Kev  was  wreathed  with  his  pother. 

But,  (that  Jacoby  feeling  again  for  fore- 
bitten  fruit  and,  my  Georgeous,  Kevvy  too  he 
just  loves  his  puppadums,  I  judge!)  after  all  his 
autocratic  writings  of  paraboles  of  famellicurbs 
and  meddlied  muddlingisms,  thee  faroots  hof 
cullchaw  end  ate  citrawn  woodint  wun  able 
rep  of  the  triperforator  awlrite  blast  through 
his  pergaman  hit  him  where  he  lived  and  do  for 
the  blessted  selfchuruls,  what  I  think,  smarter 
like  it  done  for  a  manny  another  unpious  of 
the  hairydary  quare  quandary  firstings  till  at 
length,  you  one  bladdy  bragger,  by  mercy- 
stroke  he  measured  his  earth  anyway.'^  could 
not  but  recken  in  his  adder's  badder  cadder 
way  our  frankson  who,  to  be  plain,  he  fight 
him  all  time  twofeller  longa  kill  dead  finish 
bloody  face  blong  you,  was  misocain.  Wince 


ACCORDING 
TO  COCKER. 


TROTHBLOWERS, 
FIG  AND 
THISTLE 
PLOT  A  PIG 
AND 

WHISTLE. 


^  He,  angel  that  I  thought  him,  and  he  not  aebel  to  speel  eelyotripes.,  Mr 
Tellibly  Divilcult! 

^  When  the  dander  rattles  how  the  peacocks  prance ! 

^  The  Brownes  de  Browne  -  Browne  of  Casdehacknolan. 


303 


Service  super- 
seding self. 


Catastrophe  and 
Anabasis. 

The  rotary  pro- 
cessus and  its 
reestablishment 
of  reciprocities. 

