Shutter  up.  Dining  with  the  Danes.  Removed  to  Philip's  Burke. 
At  sea.  D.E.D.  Place  scent  on.  Clontalk.  Father  Jacob,  Rice 
Factor.  3  Castlewoos.  P.V.  Arrusted.  J.P.  Converted  to  Hos- 
pitalism. Ere  the  March  past  of  Civilisation.  Once  Bank  of  Ireland's. 
Return  to  City  Arms.  2  Milchbroke.  Wrongly  spilled.  Traumcon- 
draws.  Now  Bunk  of  England's.  Drowned  in  the  Lafley.  Here. 
The  Reverest  Adam  Foundlitter.  Shown  geshotten.  7  Streetpetres. 
Since  Cabranke.  Seized  of  the  Crownd.  Well,  Sir  Arthur.  Buy 

420 


Patersen's  Matches.  Unto  his  promisk  hands.  Blown  up  last 
Lemmas  by  Orchid  Lodge.  Search  Unclaimed  Male.  House  Con- 
damned  by  Ediles.  Back  in  Few  Minutes.  Closet  for  Repeers.  60 
Shellburn.  Key  at  Kate's.  Kiss.  Isaac's  Butt,  Poor  Man.  Dalicious 
arson.  Caught.  Missing.  Justiciated.  Kainly  forewarred.  Abraham 
Badly's  King,  Park  Bogey.  Salved.  All  reddy  berried.  Hollow  and 
eavy.  Desert  it.  Overwayed.  Understrumped.  Back  to  the  P.O. 
Kaer  of.  Ownes  owe  M.O.  Too  Let.  To  Be  Soiled.  Cohabited 
by  Unfortunates.  Lost  all  Licence.  His  Bouf  Toe  is  Frozen  Over. 
X,  Y  and  Z,  Ltd,  Destinied  Tears.  A.B,  ab.  Sender.  Boston 
(Mass).  31  Jun.  13,  12.  P.D.  Razed.  Lawyered.  Vacant.  Mined. 
Here's  the  BayleafFs.  Step  out  to  Hall  out  of  that,  Ereweaker, 
with  your  Bloody  Big  Bristol.  Bung.  Stop.  Bung.  Stop.  Cumm 
Bumm.  Stop.  Came  Baked  to  Auld  Aireen.  Stop. 

—  Kind  Shaun,  we  all  requested,  much  as  we  hate  to  say  it, 
but  since  you  rose  to  the  use  of  money  have  you  not,  without 
suggesting  for  an  instant,  millions  of  moods  used  up  slanguage 
tun  times  as  words  as  the  penmarks  used  out  in  sinscript  with  such 
hesitancy  by  your  cerebrated  brother  —  excuse  me  not  men- 
tioningahem.^ 

—  CelebrAted!  Shaun  replied  under  the  sheltar  of  his  brog- 
uish,  vigorously  rubbing  his  magic  lantern  to  a  glow  of  full- 
consciousness.  HeCitEncy!  Your  words  grates  on  my  ares. 
Notorious  I  rather  would  feel  inclined  to  myself  in  the  first  place 
to  describe  Mr  O'Shem  the  Draper  with  before  letter  as  should 
I  be  accentually  called  upon  for  a  dieoguinnsis  to  pass  my  opinions, 
properly  spewing,  into  impulsory  irelitz.  But  I  would  not  care  to 
be  so  unfruitful  to  my  own  part  as  to  swear  for  the  moment  posi- 
tively as  to  the  views  of  Denmark.  No,  sah !  But  let  me  say  my 
every  belief  before  my  high  Gee  is  that  I  much  doubt  of  it.  I've  no 
room  for  that  fellow  on  my  fagroaster,  I  just  can't.  As  I  hourly 
learn  from  Rooters  and  Havers  through  Gilligan's  maypoles  in 
a  nice  pathetic  notice  he,  the  pixillated  doodler,  is  on  his  last  with 
illegible  clergimanths  boasting  always  of  his  ruddy  complexious ! 
She,  the  mammy  far,  was  put  up  to  it  by  him,  the  iniquity  that 
ought  to  be  depraved  of  his  libertins  to  be  silenced,  sackclothed 

421 


and  suspended,  and  placed  in  irons  into  some  drapyery  institution 
off  the  antipopees  for  wordsharping  only  if  he  was  klanver  enough 
to  pass  the  panel  fleischcurers  and  the  fieldpost  censor.  Gach! 
For  that  is  a  fullblown  fact  and  well  celibated  before  the  four 
divorce  courts  and  all  the  King's  paunches,  how  he  has  the 
solitary  from  seeing  Scotch  snakes  and  has  a  lowsense  for  the  pro- 
duction of  consumption  and  dalickey  cyphalos  on  his  brach 
premises  where  he  can  purge  his  contempt  and  dejeunerate  into  a 
skilly  ton  be  thinking  himself  to  death.  Rot  him !  Flannelfeet  1  Flatty- 
ro!  I  will  describe  you  in  a  word.  Thou.  (I  beg  your  pardon.) 
Homo!  Then  putting  his  bedfellow  on  me!  (like  into  mike  and 
nick  onto  post).  The  criniman:  I'll  give  it  to  him  for  that!  Making 
the  lobbard  change  hisstops,  as  we  say  in  the  long  book!  Is  he 
on  whosekeeping  or  are  my!  Obnoximost  posthumust!  With  his 
unique  hornbook  and  his  prince  of  the  apauper's  pride,  blunder- 
ing all  over  the  two  worlds !  If  he  waits  till  I  buy  him  a  mossel- 
man's  present!  Ho's  nos  halfcousin  of  mine,  pigdish!  Nor  wants 
to!  I'd  famish  with  the  cuistha  first.  Aham! 

—  May  we  petition  you,  Shaun  illustrious,  then,  to  put  his 
prentis'  pride  in  your  aproper's  purse  and  to  unravel  in  your  own 
sweet  way  with  words  of  style  to  your  very  and  most  obse- 
quient,  we  suggested,  with  yet  an  esiop's  foible,  as  to  how.'^ 

—  Well  it  is  partly  my  own,  isn't  it.'^  and  you  may,  ought  and 
welcome,  Shaun  replied,  taking  at  the  same  time,  as  his  hunger 
got  the  bitter  of  him,  a  hearty  bite  out  of  the  honeycomb  of  his 
Braham  and  Melosedible  hat,  tryone,  tryon  and  triune.  Ann  wun- 
kum.  Sure,  I  thunkum  you  knew  all  about  that,  honorey  causes, 
through  thelemontary  channels  long  agum.  Sure,  that  is  as  old  as 
the  Baden  bees  of  Saint  Dominoc's  and  as  commonpleas  now  to 
alius  pueblows  and  bunkum  as  Nelson  his  trifulgurayous  pillar. 
However.  Let  me  see,  do.  Beerman's  bluff  was  what  begun  it.  Old 
Knoll  and  his  borrowing!  And  then  the  liliens  of  the  veldt,  Nancy 
Nickies  and  Folletta  Lajambe!  Then  mem  and  hem  and  the  jaque- 
jack.  All  about  Wucherer  and  righting  his  name  for  him.  I  regret 
to  announce,  after  laying  out  his  litterery  bed,  for  two  days  she 
kept  squealing  down  for  noisy  priors  and  bawling  out  to  her 

422 


I 

t 


I 


jameymock  farceson  in  Shemish  like  a  mouther  of  the  incas  with 
a  garcielasso  huw  Ananymus  pinched  her  tights  and  about  the 
Bait  with  the  markshaire  parawag  and  his  loyal  divorces,  when  he  "z.*  B  *2- 
feraxiously  shed  ovas  in  Alemaney,  tse  tse,  all  the  tell  of  the  tud 
with  the  bourighevisien  backclack,  and  him,  the  cribibber  like  an 
ambi trickster,  aspiring  like  the  decan's,  fast  aslooped  in  the  in- 
trance  to  his  polthronechair  with  his  sixth  finger  between  his  cats-  -r-v  ^  7^. 
eye  and  the  index,  making  his  pillgrimace  of  Childe  Horrid,  en-  u 
grossing  to  his  ganderpan  what  the  idioglossary  he  invented  under 
hicks  hyssop!  Hock!  Ickick  gav  him  that  toock,  imitator!  And  it 
was  entirely  theck  latter  to  blame.  Does  he  drink  because  I  am  sorely 
there  shall  be  no  more  Kates  and  Nells.  If  you  see  him  it  took 
place  there.  It  was  given  meeck,  thank  the  Bench,  to  assist  at  the 
whole  thing  byck  special  chancery  licence.  As  often  as  I  think  of 
that  unbloody  housewarmer,  Shem  Skrivenitch,  always  cutting 
my  prhose  to  please  his  phrase,  bogorror,  I  declare  I  get  the 
jawache!  Be  me  punting  his  reflection  he'd  begin  his  beogre- 
fright  in  muddyass  ribalds.  Digteter!  Grundtsagar!  Swop  beef! 
You  know  he's  peculiar,  that  eggschicker,  with  the  smell  of  old 
woman  off  him,  to  suck  nothing  of  his  switchedupes.  M.D.  made 
his  ante  mortem  for  him.  He  was  grey  at  three,  like  sygnus  the 
swan,  when  he  made  his  boo  to  the  public  and  barnacled  up  to  the 
eyes  when  he  repented  after  seven.  The  alum  that  winters  on  his 
top  is  the  stale  of  the  staun  that  will  soar  when  he  stambles  till 
that  hag  of  the  coombe  rapes  the  pad  off  his  lock.  He  was  down 
with  the  whooping  laugh  at  the  age  of  the  loss  of  reason  the 
whopping  first  time  he  prediseased  me.  He's  weird,  I  tell  you,  and 
middayevil  down  to  his  vegetable  soul.  Never  mind  his  falls 
feet  and  his  tanbark  complexion.  That's  why  he  was  forbidden 
tomate  and  was  warmed  off  the  ricecourse  of  marrimoney,  under 
the  Helpless  Corpses  Enactment.  I'm  not  at  all  surprised  the  saint 
kicked  him  whereby  the  sum  taken  Berkeley  showed  the  reason 
genrously.  Negas^  negasti  —  negertop,  negertoe,  negertoby,  ne- 
grunter!  Then  he  was  pusched  out  of  Thingamuddy's  school 
by  Miss  Garterd,  for  itching.  Then  he  caught  the  europicolas  and 
went  into  the  society  of  jewses.  With  Bro  Cahlls  and  Fran  Czeschs 

423 


and  Bruda  Pszths  and  Brat  Slaves.  One  temp  when  he  foiled  to 
be  killed,  the  freak  wanted  to  put  his  bilingual  head  intentionally 
through  the  Ikish  Tames  and  go  and  join  the  clericy  as  a  demoni- 
can  skyterrier.  Throwing  dust  in  the  eyes  of  the  Hooley  Fer- 
mers!  He  used  to  be  avowdeed  as  he  ought  to  be  vitandist.  For 
onced  I  squeaked  by  twyst  Til  squelch  him.  Then  he  went  to 
Cecilia's  treat  on  his  solo  to  pick  up  Galen.  Asbestopoulos !  Inku- 
pot!  He  has  encaust  in  the  blood.  Shim!  I  have  the  outmost  con- 
tempt for.  Prost  bitten!  Conshy!  Tiberia  is  waiting  on  you, 
arestocrank !  Chaka  a  seagull  ticket  at  Gattabuia  and  Gabbiano's ! 
Go  o'er  the  sea,  haythen,  from  me  and  leave  your  libber  to  TCD. 
Your  puddin  is  cooked!  You're  served,  cram  ye!  Fatefully 
yaourth  .  . .  Ex.  Ex.  Ex.  Ex. 

—  But  for  what,  thrice  truthful  teller,  Shaun  of  grace .'^  weakly 
we  went  on  to  ask  now  of  the  gracious  one.  Vouchsafe  to  say. 
You  will  now,  goodness,  won't  you.'*  Why.^ 

—  For  his  root  language,  if  you  ask  me  whys,  Shaun  replied, 
as  he  blessed  himself  devotionally  like  a  crawsbomb,  making  act 
of  oblivion,  footinmouther!  (what  the  thickuns  else.'*)  which  he 
picksticked  into  his  lettruce  invrention.  UUhodturdenweirmud- 
gaardgringnirurdrmolnirfenrirlukkilokkibaugimandodrrerin- 
surtkrinmgernrackinarockar !  Thor's  for  yo! 

—  The  hundredlettered  name  again,  last  word  of  perfect  lan- 
guage. But  you  could  come  near  it,  we  do  suppose,  strong  Shaun 
O',  we  foresupposed.  How.'^ 

—  Peax!  Peax!  Shaun  replied  in  vealar  penultimatum.  'Tis 
pebils  before  Sweeney's  as  he  swigged  a  slug  of  Jon  Jacobsen 
from  his  treestem  sucker  cane.  Mildbut  likesome!  I  might  as 
well  be  talking  to  the  four  waves  till  tibbes  grey  eves  and  the 
rests  asleep.  Frost!  Nope!  No  one  in  his  seven  senses  could  as 
I  have  before  said,  only  you  missed  my  drift,  for  it's  being  in- 
cendiary. Every  dimmed  letter  in  it  is  a  copy  and  not  a  few  of  the 
silbils  and  wholly  words  I  can  show  you  in  my  Kingdom  of 
Heaven.  The  lowquacity  of  him!  With  his  threestar  monothong! 
Thaw!  The  last  word  in  stolentelling!  And  what's  more  right- 
down  lowbrown  schisthematic  robblemint !  Yes.  As  he  was  rising 

424 


a 


5^ 


n 


94 


my  lather.  Like  you.  And  as  I  was  plucking  his  goosybone.  Like 
yea.  He  store  the  tale  of  me  shur.  Like  yup.  How's  that  for 
Shemese.'^ 

—  Still  in  a  way,  not  to  flatter  you,  we  fancy  you  that  you  are 
so  strikingly  brainy  and  well  letterread  in  yourshelves  as  ever  were 
the  Shamous  Shamonous,  Limited,  could  use  worse  of  yourself,  in- 
genious Shaun,  we  still  so  fancied,  if  only  you  would  take  your 
time  so  and  the  trouble  of  so  doing  it.  Upu  now! 

—  Undoubtedly  but  that  is  show,  Shaun  replied,  the  mutter- 
melk  of  his  blood  donor  beginning  to  work,  and  while  innocent 
of  disseminating  the  foul  emanation,  it  would  be  a  fall  day  I 
could  not,  sole,  so  you  can  keep  your  space  and  by  the  power  of 
blurry  wards  I  am  loyable  to  do  it  (I  am  convicted  of  it!)  any  time 
ever  I  liked  (bet  ye  fippence  off  me  boot  allowance!)  with  the 
allergrossest  transfusiasm  as,  you  see,  while  I  can  soroquise  the 
Siamanish  better  than  most,  it  is  an  openear  secret,  be  it  said, 
how  I  am  extremely  ingenuous  at  the  clerking  even  with  my 
badily  left  and,  arrah  go  braz,  I'd  pinsel  it  with  immenuensoes 
as  easy  as  I'd  perorate  a  chickerow  of  beans  for  the  price  of  two 
maricles  and  my  trifolium  librotto,  the  authordux  Book  of  Lief, 
would,  if  given  to  daylight,  (I  hold  a  most  incredible  faith  about 
it)  far  exceed  what  that  bogus  bolshy  of  a  shame,  my  soamheis 
brother,  Gaoy  Fecks,  is  conversant  with  in  audible  black  and 
prink.  Outragedy  of  poetscalds!  Acomedy  of  letters!  I  have 
them  all,  tame,  deep  and  harried,  in  my  mine's  I.  And  one  of 
these  fine  days,  man  dear,  when  the  mood  is  on  me,  that  I 
may  willhap  cut  my  throat  with  my  tongue  tonight  but  I  will 
be  ormuzd  moved  to  take  potlood  and  introvent  it  Paatryk  just 
like  a  work  of  merit,  mark  my  words  and  append  to  my  mark 
twang,  that  will  open  your  pucktricker's  ops  for  you,  broather 
brooher,  only  for,  as  a  papst  and  an  immature  and  a  nayophight 
and  a  spaciaman  spaciosum  and  a  hundred  and  eleven  other  things, 
I  would  never  for  anything  take  so  much  trouble  of  such  doing. 
And  why  so.'^  Because  I  am  altogether  a  chap  too  fly  and  hairy  man 
for  to  infradig  the  like  of  that  ultravirulence.  And  by  all  I  hold 
sacred  on  earth  clouds  and  in  heaven  I  swear  to  you  on  my  piop 

425 


and  oath  by  the  awe  of  Shaun  (and  that's  a  howl  of  a  name!)  that 
I  will  commission  to  the  flames  any  incendiarist  whosoever  or 
ahriman  howsoclever  who  would  endeavour  to  set  ever  annyma 
roner  moother  of  mine  on  fire.  Rock  me  julie  but  I  will  soho ! 

And,  with  that  crickcrackcruck  of  his  threelungged  squool 
from  which  grief  had  usupped  every  smile,  big  hottempered 
husky  fusky  krenfy  strenfy  pugiliser,  such  as  he  was,  he  virtually 
broke  down  on  the  mooherhead,  getting  quite  jerry  over  her, 
overpowered  by  himself  with  the  love  of  the  tearsilver  that 
he  twined  through  her  hair  for,  sure,  he  was  the  soft  semplgawn 
slob  of  the  world  with  a  heart  like  Montgomery's  in  his  showchest 
and  harvey  loads  of  feeling  in  him  and  as  innocent  and  undesign- 
ful  as  the  freshfallen  calef.  Still,  grossly  unselfish  in  sickself,  he 
dished  allarmes  away  and  laughed  it  ofi"  with  a  wipe  at  his  pud- 
gies  and  a  gulp  apologetic,  healing  his  tare  be  the  smeyle  of  his 
oye,  oogling  around.  Him  belly  no  belong  sollow  mole  pigeon. 
Ally  bully.  Fu  Li's  gulpa.  Mind  you,  now,  that  he  was  in  the 
dumpest  of  earnest  orthough  him  jawr  war  hoo  hleepy  hor  halk 
urthing  hurther.  Moe  like  that  only  he  stopped  short  in  looking 
up  up  upfrom  his  tide  shackled  wrists  through  the  ghost  of  an 
ocean's,  the  wieds  of  pansiful  heath vens  of  joepeter's  gaseytotum 
as  they  are  telling  not  but  were  and  will  be,  all  told,  scruting  fore- 
back  into  the  fargoneahead  to  feel  out  what  age  in  years  tropical, 
ecclesiastic,  civil  or  sidereal  he  might  find  by  the  sirious  pointstand 
of  Charley's  Wain  (what  betune  the  spheres  sledding  along  the 
lacteal  and  the  mansions  of  the  blest  turning  on  old  times)  as  ere- 
while  had  he  craved  of  thus,  the  dreamskhwindel  necklassoed  him, 
his  thumbs  fell  into  his  fists  and,  lusosing  the  harmonical  balance 
of  his  ballbearing  extremities,  by  the  holy  kettle,  like  a  flask  of 
lightning  over  he  careened  (O  the  sons  of  the  fathers!)  by  the 
mightyfine  weight  of  his  barrel  (all  that  prevented  the  happering 
of  who  if  not  the  asterisks  bet  wink  themselves  shall  ever.^)  and, 
as  the  wisest  postlude  course  he  could  playact,  collaspsed  in  en- 
semble and  rolled  buoyantly  backwards  in  less  than  a  twink- 
ling via  Rattigan's  corner  out  of  farther  earshot  with  his  highly 
curious  mode  of  slipashod  motion,  surefoot,  sorefoot,  slickfoot, 

426 


slackfoot,  linkman  laizurely,  lampman  loungey,  and  by  Killesther's 
lapes  and  falls,  with  corks,  staves  and  treeleaves  and  more  bub- 
bles to  his  keelrow  a  fairish  and  easy  way  enough  as  the  town  cow 
cries  behind  the  times  in  the  direction  of  Mac  AulifFe's,  the  crucet- 
house,  Open  the  Door  Softly^  down  in  the  valley  before  he  was 
really  uprighted  ere  in  a  dip  of  the  downs  (uila!)  he  spoorlessly 
disappaled  and  vanesshed,  like  a  popo  down  a  papa,  from  circular 
circulatio.  Ah,  mean! 
Gaogaogaone!  Tapaa! 

And  the  Stellas  were  shinings.  And  the  earthnight  strewed 
aromatose.  His  pibrook  creppt  mong  the  donkness.  A  reek  was 
waft  on  the  luftstream.  He  was  ours,  all  fragrance.  And  we  were 
his  for  a  lifetime.  O  dulcid  dreamings  languidous!  Taboccoo! 

It  was  sh arming!  But  sharmeng! 

And  the  lamp  went  out  as  it  couldn't  glow  on  burning,  yep,  the 
Imp  wnt  out  for  it  couldn't  stay  alight. 

Well,  (how  dire  do  we  thee  hours  when  thylike  fades !)  all's  dall 
and  youllow  and  it  is  to  bedowern  that  thou  art  passing  hence, 
mine  bruder,  able  Shaun,  with  a  twhisking  of  the  robe,  ere  the 
morning  of  light  calms  our  hardest  throes,  beyond  cods'  cradle 
and  porpoise  plain,  from  carnal  relations  undfamiliar  faces,  to  the 
inds  of  Tuskland  where  the  oliphants  scrum  till  the  ousts  of 
Amiracles  where  the  toll  stories  grow  proudest,  more  is  the  pity, 
but  for  all  your  deeds  of  goodness  you  were  soo  ooft  and  for 
ever  doing,  manomano  and  myriamilia  even  to  mulimuli,  as 
our  humbler  classes,  whose  virtue  is  humility,  can  tell,  it  is  hardly 
we  in  the  country  of  the  old,  Sean  Moy,  can  part  you  for,  oleypoe, 
you  were  the  walking  saint,  you  were,  tootoo  too  stayer,  the 
graced  of  gods  and  pittites  and  the  salus  of  the  wake.  Countenance 
whose  disparition  afflictedly  fond  Fuinn  feels.  Winner  of  the 
gamings,  primed  at  the  studience,  propredicted  from  the  story- 
bouts,  the  choice  of  ages  wise!  Spickspookspokesman  of  our 
specturesque  silentiousness!  Musha,  beminded  of  us  out  therein  '2.  7^ 
Cockpit,  poor  twelve  o'clock  scholars,  sometime  or  other  any- 
when  you  think  the  time.  Wisha,  becoming  back  to  us  way  home 
in  Biddyhouse  one  way  or  either  anywhere  we  miss  your  smile. 

427 


Palmwine  breadfruit  sweetmeat  milksoup!  Suasusupo!  However! 
Our  people  here  in  Samoanesia  will  not  be  after  forgetting  you 
and  the  elders  luking  and  marking  the  jornies,  chalkin  up  drizzle 
in  drizzle  out  on  the  four  bare  mats.  How  you  would  be  thinking 
in  your  thoughts  how  the  deepings  did  it  all  begin  and  how  you 
would  be  scrimmaging  through  your  scruples  to  collar  a  hold  of 
an  imperfection  being  committled.  Sireland  calls  you.  Mery  Loye 
is  saling  moonlike.  And  Slyly  mamoumeen's  ladymaid  at  Glads- 
house  Lodge.  Turn  your  coat,  strong  character,  and  tarry  among 
us  down  the  vale,  yougander,  only  once  more!  And  may  the  mosse 
of  prosperousness  gather  you  rolling  home!  May  foggy  dews  be- 
diamondise  your  hooprings !  May  the  fireplug  of  filiality  reinsure 
your  bunghole!  May  the  barleywind  behind  glow  luck  to  your 
bathershins!  Tis  well  we  know  you  were  loth  to  leave  us, 
winding  your  hobbledehorn,  right  royal  post,  but,  aruah  sure, 
pulse  of  our  slumber,  dreambookpage,  by  the  grace  of  Votre 
Dame,  when  the  natural  morning  of  your  nocturne  blankmerges 
into  the  national  morning  of  golden  sunup  and  Don  Leary  gets 
his  own  back  from  old  grog  Georges  Quartos  as  that  goodship  the 
Jonnyjoys  takes  the  wind  from  waterloogged  Erin's  king,  you 
will  shiff  across  the  Moylendsea  and  round  up  in  your  own 
escapology  some  canonisator's  day  or  other,  sack  on  back,  alack! 
digging  snow,  (not  so.'^)  like  the  good  man  you  are,  with  your 
picture  pockets  turned  knockside  out  in  the  rake  of  the  rain  for 
fresh  remittances  and  from  that  till  this  in  any  case,  timus  tenant, 
may  the  tussocks  grow  quickly  under  your  trampthickets  and 
the  daisies  trip  lightly  over  your  battercops. 


428 


i 

I. 


Jaunty  Jaun,  as  I  was  shortly  before  that  made  aware,  next 
halted  to  fetch  a  breath,  the  first  cothurminous  leg  of  his  night- 
stride  being  pulled  through,  and  to  loosen  (let  God's  son  now  be 
looking  down  on  the  poor  preambler!)  both  of  his  bruised 
brogues  that  were  plainly  made  a  good  bit  before  his  hosen  were, 
at  the  weir  by  Lazar's  Walk  (for  far  and  wide,  as  large  as  he  was 
lively,  was  he  noted  for  his  humane  treatment  of  any  kind  of 
abused  footgear),  a  matter  of  maybe  nine  score  or  so  barrelhours 
distance  off  as  truly  he  merited  to  do.  He  was  there,  you  could 
planemetrically  see,  when  I  took  a  closer  look  at  him,  that  was  to 
say,  (gracious  helpings,  at  this  rate  of  growing  our  cotted  child  of 
yestereve  will  soon  fill  space  and  burst  in  systems,  so  speeds  the 
instant!)  amply  altered  for  the  brighter,  though  still  the  graven 
image  of  his  squarer  self  as  he  was  used  to  be,  perspiring  but 
happy  notwithstanding  his  foot  was  still  asleep  on  him,  the  way 
he  thought,  by  the  holy  januarious,  he  had  a  bullock's  hoof  in  his 
buskin,  with  his  halluxes  so  splendid,  through  Ireland  untran- 
scended,  bigmouthed  poesther,  propped  up,  restant,  against  a 
butterblond  warden  of  the  peace,  one  comestabulish  Sigurdsen, 
(and  where  a  better  than  such  exsearfaceman  to  rest  from  roving 
the  laddyown  he  bootblacked?)  who,  buried  upright  like  the 
Osbornes,  kozydozy,  had  tumbled  slumbersomely  on  sleep  at 
night  duty  behind  the  curing  station,  equilebriated  amid  the 
embracings  of  a  monopolized  bottle. 

429 


Now,  there  were  as  many  as  twentynine  hedge  daughters  out 
of  Benent  Saint  Berched's  national  nightschool  (for  they  seemed 
to  remember  how  it  was  still  a  once-upon-a-four  year)  learning 
their  antemeridian  lesson  of  life,  under  its  tree,  against  its  warn- 
ing, beseated,  as  they  were,  upon  the  brinkspondy,  attracted  to 
the  rarerust  sight  of  the  first  human  yellowstone  landmark  (the 
bear,  the  boer,  the  king  of  all  boors,  sir  Humphrey  his  knave 
we  met  on  the  moors !)  while  they  paddled  away,  keeping  time 
magnetically  with  their  eight  and  fifty  pedalettes,  playing  foolu- 
fool  jouay  alio  misto  posto,  O  so  jaonickally,  all  barely  in  their 
typtap  teens,  describing  a  charming  dactylogram  of  nocturnes 
though  repelled  by  the  snores  of  the  log  who  looked  stuck  to 
the  sod  as  ever  and  oft,  when  liquefied,  (vil!)  he  murmoaned 
abasourdly  in  his  Dutchener's  native,  visibly  unmoved,  over  his 
treasure  trove  for  the  crown:  Doner  dead  bedstead  mean  diggy 
smuggy  flashy! 

Jaun  (after  he  had  in  the  first  place  doffed  a  hat  with  a  rein- 
forced crown  and  bowed  to  all  the  others  in  that  chorus  of  praise 
of  goodwill  girls  on  their  best  beehiviour  who  all  they  were  girls 
all  rushing  sowarmly  for  the  post  as  buzzy  as  sie  could  bie  to  read 
his  kisshands,  kittering  all  about,  rushing  and  making  a  tremen- 
dous girlsfuss  over  him  pellmale,  their  jeime  premier  and  his  rosy- 
posy  smile,  mussing  his  frizzy  hair  and  the  golliwog  curls  of  him, 
all,  but  that  one;  Finfria*s  fairest,  done  in  loveletters  like  a  trayful 
of  cloudberry  tartlets  (ain't  they  fine,  mighty,  mighty  fine  and 
honoured?)  and  smilingly  smelling,  pair  and  pair  about,  broad 
by  bread  and  slender  to  slimmer,  the  nice  perfumios  that  came 
cunvy  peeling  off  him  (nice!)  which  was  angelic  simply,  savouring 
of  wild  thyme  and  parsley  jumbled  with  breadcrumbs  (O  nice!) 
and  feeling  his  full  fat  pouch  for  him  so  tactily  and  jingaling 
his  jellybags  for,  though  he  looked  a  young  chapplie  of  sixtine, 
they  could  frole  by  his  manhood  that  he  was  just  the  killingest 
ladykiller  all  by  kindness,  now  you,  Jaun,  asking  kindlily  (hillo, 
missies!)  after  their  howareyous  at  all  with  those  of  their  dolly- 
begs  (and  where's  Agatha's  lamb?  and  how  are  Bernadetta's 
columbillas?  and  Juliennaw's  tubberbunnies?  and  Eulalina's 

430 


tuggerfunnies?)  he  next  went  on  (finefeelingfit!)  to  drop  a  few 
stray  remarks  anent  their  personal  appearances  and  the  contrary 
tastes  displayed  in  their  tight  kittycasques  and  their  smart  fricky- 
frockies,  asking  coy  one  after  sloy  one  had  she  read  Irish  legginds 
and  gently  reproving  one  that  the  ham  of  her  horn  could  be 
seen  below  her  hem  and  whispering  another  aside,  as  lavariant, 
that  the  hook  of  her  hum  was  open  a  bittock  at  her  back  to  have 
a  sideeye  to  that,  hom,  (and  all  of  course  just  to  fill  up  a  form 
out  of  pure  human  kindness  and  in  a  sprite  of  fun)  for  Jaun,  by 
the  way,  was  by  the  way  of  becoming  (I  think,  I  hope  he  was) 
the  most  purely  human  being  that  ever  was  called  man,  loving  all 
up  and  down  the  whole  creation  from  Sampson's  tyke  to  Jones's 
sprat  and  from  the  King  of  all  Wrenns  down  to  infuseries)  Jaun, 
after  those  few  prelimbs  made  out  through  his  eroscope  the 
apparition  of  his  fond  sister  Izzy  for  he  knowed  his  love  by  her 
waves  of  splabashing  and  she  showed  him  proof  by  her  way  of 
blabushing  nor  could  he  forget  her  so  tarnelly  easy  as  all  that 
since  he  was  brotherbesides  her  benedict  godfather  and  heaven 
knows  he  thought  the  world  and  his  life  of  her  sweet  heart  could 
buy,  (brao !)  poor,  good,  true,  Jaun ! 

—  Sister  dearest,  Jaun  delivered  himself  with  express  cordia- 
lity, marked  by  clearance  of  diction  and  general  delivery,  as  he 
began  to  take  leave  of  his  scolastica  at  once  so  as  to  gain  time 
with  deep  affection,  we  honestly  believe  you  sorely  will  miss  us 
the  moment  we  exit  yet  we  feel  as  a  martyr  to  the  dischurch  of 
all  duty  that  it  is  about  time,  by  Great  Harry,  we  would  shove 
off  to  stray  on  our  long  last  journey  and  not  be  the  load  on  ye. 
This  is  the  gross  proceeds  of  your  teachings  in  which  we  were 
raised,  you,  sis,  that  used  to  write  to  us  the  exceeding  nice  letters 
for  presentation  and  would  be  telling  us  anun  (full  well  do  we 
wont  to  recall  to  mind)  thy  oldworld  tales  of  homespinning  and 
derringdo  and  dieobscure  and  daddyho,  these  tales  which  reliter- 
ately  whisked  off  our  heart  so  narrated  by  thou,  gesweest,  to 
perfection,  our  pet  pupil  of  the  whole  rhythmetic  class  and  the 
mainsay  of  our  erigenal  house,  the  time  we  younkers  twain  were 
fairly  tossing  ourselves  (O  Phoebus!  O  Pollux!)  in  bed,  having 

431 


been  laid  up  with  Castor's  oil  on  the  Parrish's  syrup  (the  night 
we  will  remember)  for  to  share  our  hard  suite  of  affections  with 
thee. 

I  rise,  O  fair  assemblage!  Andcommincio.  Now  then,  after 
this  introit  of  exordium,  my  galaxy  girls,  quiproquo  of  directions 
to  henservants  I  was  asking  his  advice  on  the  strict  T.T.  from 
Father  Mike,  P.P.,  my  orational  dominican  and  confessor  doctor, 
C.C.D.D.  (buy  the  birds,  he  was  saying  as  he  yerked  me  under 
the  ribs  sermon  in  an  offrand  way  and  confidence  petween  peas 
like  ourselves  in  soandso  many  nuncupiscent  words  about  how  he 
had  been  confarreating  teat-a-teat  with  two  viragos  intactas  about 
what  an  awful  life  he  led,  poorish  priced,  uttering  mass  for  a 
coppall  of  geldings  and  what  a  lawful  day  it  was,  there  and  then, 
for  a  consommation  with  an  effusion  and  how,  by  all  the  manny 
larries  ate  pignatties,  how,  hell  in  tunnels,  he'd  marry  me  any 
old  buckling  time  as  flying  quick  as  he'd  look  at  me)  and  I  am 
giving  youth  now  again  in  words  of  style  byaway  of  offertory 
hisand  mikeadvice,  an  it  place  the  person,  as  ere  he  retook  him 
to  his  cure,  those  verbs  he  said  to  me.  From  above.  The  most 
eminent  bishop  titular  of  Dubloonik  to  all  his  purtybusses  in 
Dellabelliney.  Comeallyedimseldamsels,  siddle  down  and  lissle 
all!  Follow  me  close!  Keep  me  in  view!  Understeady  me  saries! 
Which  is  to  all  practising  massoeurses  from  a  preaching  freer  and 
be  a  gentleman  without  a  duster  before  a  parlourmade  with- 
out a  spitch.  Now.  During  our  brief  apsence  from  this  furtive 
feugtig  season  adhere  to  as  many  as  probable  of  the  ten  com- 
mandments touching  purgations  and  indulgences  and  in  the  long 
run  they  will  prove  for  your  better  guidance  along  your  path  of 
right  of  way.  Where  the  lisieuse  are  we  and  what's  the  first  sing 
to  be  sung.'^  Is  it  rubrics,  mandarimus,  pasqualines,  or  verdidads 
is  in  it,  or  the  bruiselivid  indecores  of  estreme  voyoulence  and, 
for  the  lover  of  lithurgy,  bekant  or  besant,  where's  the  fate's  to 
be  wished  for.^  Several  sindays  after  whatsintime.  I'll  sack  that  sick 
server  the  minute  I  bless  him.  That's  the  mokst  I  can  do  for  his 
grapce.  Economy  of  movement,  axe  why  said.  I've  a  hopesome's 
choice  if  I  chouse  of  all  the  sinkts  in  the  colander.  From  the  com- 

432 


I 


I 

_ 


I 


I 


mon  for  ignitiousPurpalume  to  the  proper  of  Francisco  Ultramare, 
last  of  scorchers,  third  of  snows,  in  terrorgammons  howdydos. 
Here  she's,  is  a  bell,  that's  wares  in  heaven,  virginwhite,  Undetri- 
gesima,  vikissy  manonna.  Doremon's !  The  same  or  similar  to  be 
kindly  observed  within  the  affianced  dietcess  of  Gay  OToole 
and  Gloamy  Gwenn  du  Lake  (Danish  spoken!)  from  Manducare 
Monday  up  till  farrier's  siesta  in  china  dominos.  Words  taken  in 
triumph,  my  sweet  assistance,  from  the  sufferant  pen  of  our  joco- 
sus  inkerman  militant  of  the  reed  behind  the  ear. 

Never  miss  your  lostsomewhere  mass  for  the  couple  in  Myles 
you  butrose  to  brideworship.  Never  hate  mere  pork  which  is  bad 
for  your  knife  of  a  good  friday.  Never  let  a  hog  of  the  howth 
trample  underfoot  your  linen  of  Killiney.  Never  play  lady's  game 
for  the  Lord's  stake.  Never  lose  your  heart  away  till  you  win  his 
diamond  back.  Make  a  strong  point  of  never  kicking  up  your 
rumpus  over  the  scroll  end  of  sofas  in  the  Dar  Bey  Coll  Cafeteria 
by  tootling  risky  apropos  songs  at  commercial  travellers'  smokers 
for  their  Columbian  nights  entertainments  the  like  of  White  limbs 
they  never  stop  teasing  or  Minxy  was  a  Manxmaid  when  Murry 
WOT  a  Man,  And,  by  the  bun,  is  it  you  goes  bisbuiting  His  Esaus 
and  Cos  and  then  throws  them  bag  in  the  box.'^  Why  the  tin's 
nearly  empty.  First  thou  shalt  not  smile.  Twice  thou  shalt  not 
love.  Lust,  thou  shalt  not  commix  idolatry.  Hip  confiners  help 
compunction.  Never  park  your  brief  stays  in  the  men's  con- 
venience. Never  clean  your  buttoncups  with  your  dirty  pair  of 
sassers.  Never  ask  his  first  person  where's  your  quickest  cut  to 
our  last  place.  Never  let  the  promising  hand  usemake  free  of 
your  oncemaid  sacral.  The  soft  side  of  the  axe!  A  coil  of  cord,  a 
colleen  coy,  a  blush  on  a  bush  turned  first  man's  laughter  into 
wailful  moither.  O  foolish  cuppled!  Ah,  dice's  error!  Never  dip 
in  the  ern  while  you've  browsers  on  your  suite.  Never  slip  the 
silver  key  through  your  gate  of  golden  age.  Collide  with  man, 
collude  with  money.  Ere  you  sail  foreget  my  prize.  Where  you 
truss  be  circumspicious  and  look  before  you  leak,  dears.  Never 
christen  medlard  apples  till  a  swithin  is  in  sight.  Wet  your  thistle 
where  a  weed  is  and  you'll  rue  it,  despyneedis.  Especially  beware 

433 


please  of  being  at  a  party  to  any  demoralizing  home  life.  That 
saps  a  chap.  Keep  cool  faith  in  the  firm,  have  warm  hoep  in  the 
house  and  begin  frem  athome  to  be  chary  of  charity.  Where  it 
is  nobler  in  the  main  to  supper  than  the  boys  and  errors  of  out- 
rager's  virtue.  Give  back  those  stolen  kisses;  restaure  those  all- 
cotten  glooves.  Recollect  the  yella  perals  that  all  too  often  beset 
green  gerils,  Rhidarhoda  and  Daradora,  once  they  gethobby- 
horsical,  playing  breeches  parts  for  Bessy  Sudlow  in  flesh- 
coloured  pantos  instead  of  earthing  down  in  the  coalhole  trying 
to  boil  the  big  gun's  dinner.  Leg-before- Wicked  lags-behind- 
Wall  where  here  Mr  Whicker  whacked  a  great  fall.  Femora- 
familla  feeled  it  a  candleliked  but  Hayes,  Conyngham  and  Erobin- 
son  sware  it's  an  egg.  Forglim  mick  aye!  Stay,  forestand  and 
tillgive  it!  Remember  the  biter's  bitters  I  shed  the  vigil  I  buried 
our  Harlotte  Quai  from  poor  Mrs  Mangain's  of  Britain  Court  on 
the  feast  of  Marie  Maudlin.  Ah,  who  would  wipe  her  weeper  dr^ 
and  lead  her  to  the  halter.'^  Sold  in  her  heyday,  laid  in  the  straw, 
bought  for  one  puny  petunia.  Moral:  if  you  can't  point  a  lily  get 
to  henna  out  of  here !  Put  your  swell  foot  foremost  on  foulardy 
pneumonia  shertwaists,  irriconcilible  with  true  fiminin  risirvi- 
tion  and  ribbons  of  lace,  limenick's  disgrace.  Sure,  what  is  it  on  the 
whole  only  holes  tied  together, the  merest  and  transparent  washing- 
tones  to  make  Languid  Lola's  lingery  longer.^  Scenta  Clauthes 
stiffstuffs  your  hose  and  heartsies  full  of  temptiness.  Vanity  flee 
and  Verity  fear!  Diobell!  Whalebones  and  buskbutts  may  hurt 
you  (thwackaway  thwuck!)  but  never  lay  bare  your  breast  sec- 
ret (dickette's  place!)  to  joy  a  Jonas  in  the  Dolphin's  Barncar 
with  your  meetual  fan,  Doveyed  Covetfilles,  comepulsing  payn- 
attention  spasms  between  the  averthisment  for  Ulikah's  wine  and 
a  pair  of  pulldoors  of  the  old  cupiosity  shape.  There  you'll  fix 
