with  my  fawngest  on  his  hooshmoney,  safe  and  damned,  or 
has  hopped  it  or  who  can  throw  any  lime  on  the  sop  jack, 
my  fond  fosther,  E.  Obiit  Nolan,  The  Workings,  N.S.W., 
his  condition  off  the  Venerable  Jerrybuilt,  not  belonging  to 
these  parts,  who,  I  remember  ham  to  me,  when  we  were  like 
bro  and  sis  over  our  castor  and  porridge,  with  his  roamin  I 
suppose,  expecting  for  his  clarenx  negus,  a  teetotum  abstainer. 
He  feels  he  ought  to  be  as  asamed  of  me  as  me  to  be  ashunned  of 
him.  We  were  in  one  class  of  age  like  to  two  clots  of  egg.  I  am 
most  beholding  to  him,  my  namesick,  as  we  sayed  it  in  our  Am- 
harican,  through  the  Doubly  Tele  wisher.  Outpassed  hearts  wag 
short  pertimes.  Worndown  shoes  upon  his  feet,  to  whose  re- 
dress no  tongue  can  tell!  In  his  hands  a  boot!  Spare  me,  do,  a 
copper  or  two  and  happy  I'll  hope  you'll  be!  It  will  pleased 
me  behind  with  thanks  from  before  and  love  to  self  and  all  I 
remain  here  your  truly  friend.  I  am  no  scholar  but  I  loved  that 
man  who  has  africot  lupps  with  the  moonshane  in  his  profile, 
my  shemblable!  My  freer!  I  call  you  my  half  brother  because 
you  in  your  soberer  otiumic  moments  remind  me  deeply  of  my 
natural  say  when  brothel  in  feed,  hop  and  jollity,  S.  H.  Devitt, 
that  benighted  irismaimed,  who  is  tearly  belaboured  by  Sydney 
and  Alibany. 

—  As  you  sing  it  it's  a  study.  That  letter  selfpenned  to  one's 
other,  that  neverperfect  everplanned,^ 

—  This  nonday  diary,  this  allnights  newseryreel. 

—  My  dear  sir!  In  this  wireless  age  any  owl  rooster  can  peck 

489 


up  bostoons.  But  whoewaxed  he  so  anquished?  Was  he  vector 
victored  of  victim  vexed? 

—  Mighty  sure!  Way  way  for  his  wehicul!  A  parambolator 
ram  into  his  bagsmall  when  he  was  reading  alawd,  with  two  eco- 
lites  and  he's  been  failing  of  that  kink  in^his  arts  over  sense.  ^'^^ 

— Madonagh  and  Chiel,  idealist  leading  a  double  life !  But  who, 
for  the  brilliance  of  brothers,  is  the  Nolan  as  appearant  nominally? 

—  Mr  Nolan  is  pronuminally  Mr  Gottgab.' 

—  I  get  it.  By  hearing  his  thing  about  a  person  one  begins  to 
place  him  for  a  certain  in  true.  You  reeker,  he  stands  pat  for 
you  before  a  direct  object  in  the  feminine.  I  see.  By  maiden 
sname.  Now,  I  am  earnestly  asking  you,  and  putting  it  as 
between  this  yohou  and  that  houmonymh,  will  just  you  search 
through  your  gabgut  memoirs  for  all  of  two  minutes  for  this 
impersonating  pronolan,  fairhead  on  foulshoulders.  Would  it  be 
in  twofold  truth  an  untaken  mispatriate,  too  fullfuUy  true  and 
rereally  a  doblinganger  much  about  your  own  medium  with  a 
sandy  whiskers?  Poke  me  nabs  in  the  ribs  and  pick  the  erstwort 
out  of  his  mouth. 

—  Treble  Stauter  of  Holy  Baggot  Street,  formerly  Sword- 
meat,  who  I  surpassed  him  lately  for  four  and  six  bringing  home 
the  Christmas,  as  heavy  as  music,  hand  to  eyes  on  the  peer  for 
Noel's  Arch,  in  blessed  foster's  place  is  doing  the  dirty  on  me 
with  his  tantrums  and  all  these  godforgiven  kilowatts  I'd  be 
better  off  without.  She's  write  to  him  she's  levt  by  me,  Jenny 
Rediviva!  Toot!  Better  for  you,  Mr  Nobru.  Toot  toot!  Better  for 
you,  Mr  Anol !  This  is  the  way  we.  Of  a  redtettetterday  morning. 

—  When  your  contraman  from  Tuwarceathay  is  looking  for 
righting  that  is  not  a  good  sign?  Not? 

—  I  speak  truly,  it's  a  shower  sign  that  it's  not. 

—  What  though  it  be  for  the  sow  of  his  heart?  If  even  she 
were  a  good  pool  Pegeen? 

—  If  she  ate  your  windowsill  you  wouldn't  say  sow. 

—  Would  you  be  surprised  after  that  my  asking  have  you  a 
bull,  a  bosbully,  with  a  whistle  in  his  tail  to  scare  other  birds? 

—  I  would. 

490 


—  Were  you  with  Sindy  and  Sandy  attending  Goliath,  a  bull? 

—  You'd  make  me  sag  what  you  like  to.  I  was  intending  a 
funeral.  Simply  and  samply. 

—  They  are  too  wise  of  solbing  their  silbings.'^ 

—  And  both  croon  to  the  same  theme. 

—  Tugbag  is  Baggut's,  when  a  Crispin  sokolist  besoops  juts 
kamps  or  clapperclaws  an  irvingite  offthedocks.  A  luckchange,  I 
see.  Thinking  young  through  the  muddleage  spread,  the  moral 
fat  his  mental  leans  on.  We  can  cop  that  with  our  straat  that  is 
called  corkscrewed.  It  would  be  the  finest  boulevard  billy  for  a 
mile  in  every  direction,  from  Lismore  to  Cape  Brendan,  Patrick's, 
if  they  took  the  bint  out  of  the  mittle  of  it.  You  told  of  a  tryst 
too,  two  a  tutu.  I  wonder  now,  without  releasing  seeklets  of  the 
alcove,  turturs  or  raabraabs,  have  I  heard  mention  of  whose  name 
anywhere.^  Mallowlane  or  Demaasch.'^  Strike  us  up  either  end 
Have  You  Erred  off  Van  Homper  or  Ehell  Teresa  Kane, 

—  Marak!  Marak!  Marak! 

He  drapped  has  draraks  an  Mansianhase  parak 
And  he  had  ta  barraw  tha  watarcrass  shartclaths  aff  tha  ark- 
hashap  af  Yarak! 

—  Braudribnob's  on  the  bummel.'^ 

—  And  lillypets  on  the  lea. 

—  A  being  again  in  becomings  again.  From  the  sallies  to 
the  allies  through  their  central  power.'* 

—  Pirce!  Perce!  Quick!  Queck! 

—  O  Tara's  thrush,  the  sharepusher!  And  he  said  he  was  only 
taking  the  average  grass  temperature  for  green  Thurdsday,  the 
blutchy  scaliger!  Who  you  know  the  musselman,  his  muscle- 
mum  and  mistlemam.'*  Maomi,  Mamie,  My  Mo  Mum!  He  loves 
a  drary  lane.  Feel  Phylliscitations  to  daff  Mr  Hairwigger  who 
has  just  hadded  twinned  little  curls!  He  was  resting  between 
horrockses'  sheets,  wailing  for  white  warfare,  prooboor  welsht- 
breton,  and  unbiassed  by  the  embarrassment  of  disposal  but,  the 
first  woking  day,  by  Thunder,  he  stepped  into  the  breach  and  put 
on  his  recriution  trousers  and  riding  apron  in  Baltic  Bygrad,  the 
old  soggy,  was  when  the  bold  bhuoys  of  Iran  wouldn't  join  up. 

491 


—  How  voice  you  that,  nice  Sandy  man?  Not  large  goodman 
is  he,  Sandy  nice.  Ask  him  this  one  minute  upthrow  inner  lotus 
of  his  burly  ear  womit  he  dropped  his  Bass's  to  P  flat.  And  for 
that  he  was  allaughed.^  And  then  baited?  The  whole  gammat? 

—  Loonacied !  Marterdyed ! !  Madwakemiherculossed ! ! !  Ju- 
dascessed ! ! ! !  Pairaskivvymenassed ! ! ! ! !  Luredogged ! ! ! ! ! !  And, 
needatellye,  faulscrescendied !!!!!!! 

—  Dias  domnas!  Dolled  to  dolthood?  And  Annie  Belittle, 
his  daintree  diva,  in  deltic  dwilights,  singing  him  henpecked  rusish 
through  the  bars?  My  Wolossay's  wild  as  the  Crasnian  Sea! 
Grabashag,  groogy,  scoop  and  Fll  cure  ye!  Mother  of  emeralds, 
ara  poog  neighbours! 

—  Capilla,  Rubrilla  and  Melcamomilla!  Dauby,  dauby,  with- 
out dulay!  Well,  I  beg  to  traverse  same  above  statement  by  saxy 
luters  in  their  back  haul  of  Coalcutter  what  reflects  upon  my 
administrants  of  slow  poisoning  as  my  dodear  devere  revered 
mainhirr  was  confined  to  guardroom,  I  hindustand,  by  my  pint 
of  his  Filthered  pilsens  bottle  due  to  Zenaphiah  Holwell,  H  and 
J.  C.  S,  Which  I  was  bringing  up  my  quee  parapotacarry's  orders 
in  my  sedown  chair  with  my  mudfacepacket  from  my  cash 
chemist  and  family  drugger,  Surager  Dowling,  V.S.  to  our  aural 
surgeon,  Afamado  Hairductor  Achmed  Borumborad,  M.A.C.A, 
Sahib,  of  a  looi  Ombrilla  Street,  Syringa  padham,  Alleypulley,  to 
see  what  was  my  watergood,  my  mesical  wasserguss,  for  repairs 
done  by  boUworm  in  the  rere  of  pilch  knickers,  seven  yerds  to 
his  galandhar  pole  on  perch,  together  with  his  for  me  unfillable 
slopper,  property  of  my  deeply  forfear  revebereared,  who  is  costing 
us  mostfortunes  which  I  am  writing  in  mepetition  to  Kavanagh 
Djanaral,  when  he  was  sitting  him  humpbacked  in  dry  dryfilthy- 
heat  to  his  trinidads  pinslers  at  their  orpentings,  entailing  a 
laxative  tendency  to  mary,  especially  with  him  being  forbidden 
fruit  and  certified  by  his  sexular  clergy  to  have  as  badazmy 
emotional  volvular,  with  a  basketful  of  priesters  crossing  the 
singorgeous  to  aroint  him  with  tummy  moor's  maladies,  and 
thereinafter  liable  to  succumb  when  served  with  letters  potent 
below  the  belch,  if  my  rupee  repure  riputed  husbandship  H.R.R. 

492 


i 


took  a  brief  one  in  his  shirtsails  out  of  the  alleged  given  mineral, 
telling  me  see  his  in  Foraignghistan  sambat  papers  Sunday  feac- 
tures  of  a  welcomed  aperrytiff  with  vallad  of  Erill  Pearcey  O 
he  never  battered  one  eagle's  before  paying  me  his  duty  on  my 
annaversary  to  the  parroteyes  list  in  my  nil  ensemble,  in  his  lazy- 
chair  but  he  hidded  up  my  hemifaces  in  all  my  mayarannies  and 
he  locked  plum  into  my  mirrymouth  like  Ysamasy  morning  in 
the  end  of  time,  with  the  so  light's  hope  on  his  ruddycheeks  and 
rawjaws  and,  my  charmer,  whom  I  dipped  my  hand  in,  he  simply 
showed  me  his  propendiculous  loadpoker,  Seaserpents  hisses 
sissastones,  which  was  as  then  is  produced  in  his  mansway  by 
this  wisest  of  the  Vikramadityationists,  with  the  remere  remind 
remure  remark,  in  his  gulughurutty:  Yran  for  parasites  with  rum 
for  the  turkeycockeys  so  Lithia,  M.D.,  as  this  is  for  Snooker, 
bort! 

—  Which  was  said  by  whem  to  whom? 

—  It  wham.  But  whim  I  can't  whumember. 

—  Fantasy!  funtasy  on  fantasy,  amnaes  fantasies!  And  there  is 
nihil  nuder  under  the  clothing  moon.  When  Ota,  weewahrwificle 
of  Torquells,  bumpsed  her  dumpsydiddle  down  in  her  woolsark 
she  mode  our  heuteyleutey  girlery  of  peerlesses  to  set  up  in  all 
their  bombossities  of  feudal  fiertey,  fanned,  flounced  and  frangi- 
panned,  while  the  massstab  whereby  Ephialtes  has  exceeded  is  the 
measure,  simplex  mendaciis^  by  which  our  Outis  cuts  his  thruth. 
Arkaway  now! 

—  Yerds  and  nudes  say  ayes  and  noes!  Vide!  Vide! 

—  Let  Eivin  bemember  for  Gates  of  Gold  for  their  fadeless 
suns  berayed  her.  Irise,  Osirises!  Be  thy  mouth  given  unto  thee! 
For  why  do  you  lack  a  link  of  luck  to  poise  a  pont  of  perfect, 
peace On  the  vignetto  is  a  ragingoos.  The  overseer  of  the  house 
of  the  oversire  of  the  seas,  Nu-Men,  triumphant,  sayeth:  Fly  as 
the  hawk,  cry  as  the  corncrake,  Ani  Latch  of  the  postern  is  thy 
name;  shout! 

—  My  heart,  my  mother !  My  heart,  my  coming  forth  of 
darkness!  They  know  not  my  heart,  O  coolun  dearast!  Mon 
gloomerie !  Mon  glamourie !  What  a  surpraise,  dear  Mr  Preacher, 

493 


I  to  hear  from  your  strawnummical  modesty!  Yes,  there  was 
that  skew  arch  of  chrome  sweet  home,  floodlit  up  above  the 
flabberghosted  farmament  and  bump  where  the  camel  got  the 
needle.  Talk  about  indecencies !  Ruby  and  beryl  and  chrysolite, 
jade,  sapphire,  jasper  and  lazul. 

—  Orca  Bellona!  Heavencry  at  earthcall,  etnat  athos?  Extinct 
your  vulcanology  for  the  lava  of  Moltens ! 

—  It's  you  not  me's  in  erupting,  hecklar! 

—  Ophiuchus  being  visible  above  thorizon,  muliercula  oc- 
cluded by  Satarn's  serpent  ring  system,  the  pisciolinnies  Nova 
Ardonis  and  Prisca  Parthenopea,  are  a  bonnies  feature  in  the 
northern  sky.  Ers,  Mores  and  Merkery  are  surgents  below  the  rim 
of  the  Zenith  Part  while  Arctura,  Anatolia,  Hesper  and  Mesembria 
weep  in  their  mansions  over  Noth,  Haste,  Soot  and  Waste. 

—  Apep  and  Uachet!  Holy  snakes,  chase  me  charley,  Eva's 
got  barley  under  her  fluencies!  The  Ural  Mount  he's  on  the 
move  and  he'll  quivvy  her  with  his  strombolo!  Waddlewurst, 
the  bag  of  tow,  as  broad  above  as  he  is  below!  Creeping 
through  the  liongrass  and  bullsrusshius,  the  obesendean,  before 
the  Emfang  de  Maurya's  class,  in  Bill  Shasser's  Shotshrift  writing 
academy,  camouflaged  as  a  blancmange  and  maple  syrop !  Obei- 
sance so  their  sitinins  is  the  follicity  of  this  Orp!  Her  sheik  to 
Slave,  his  dick  to  Dave  and  the  fat  of  the  land  to  Guygas.  The 
treadmill  pebbledropper  haha  halfahead  overground  and  she'd 
only  chitschats  in  her  spanking  bee  bonetry,  Allapolloosa!  Up  the 
slanger!  Three  cheers  and  a  heva  heva  for  the  name  Dan  Magraw! 

— The  giant  sun  is  in  his  emanence  but  which  is  chief  of  those 
white  dwarfees  of  which  he  ever  is  surabanded.'^  And  do  you  think 
I  might  have  being  his  seventh !  He  will  kitssle  me  on  melbaw. 
What  about  his  age.''  says  you.  What  about  it.''  says  I.  I  will 
confess  to  his  sins  and  blush  me  further.  I  would  misdemean  to 
rebuke  to  the  libels  of  snots  from  the  fleshambles,  the  canalles. 
Synamite  is  too  good  for  them.  Two  overthirties  in  shore  shor- 
ties. She's  askapot  at  Nile  Lodge  and  she's  citchincarry  at  the 
left  Mrs  Hamazum's.  Will  you  warn  your  old  habasund,  barking 
at  baggermen,  his  chokefull  chewing  his  chain?  Responsif  you 

494 


I 


I 


i 


plais.  The  said  Sully,  a  barracker  associated  with  tinkers,  the 
blackhand,  Shovellyvans,  wreuter  of  annoyimgmost  letters  and 
skirriless  ballets  in  Parsee  Franch  who  is  Magrath's  thug  and 
smells  cheaply  of  Power's  spirits,  like  a  deepsea  dibbler,  and  he  is 
not  fit  enough  to  throw  guts  down  to  a  bear.  Sylphling  me 
when  is  a  maid  nought  a  maid  he  would  go  to  anyposs  length 
for  her!  So  long,  Sulleyman!  If  they  cut  his  nose  on  the  stitcher 
they  had  their  siven  good  reasons.  Here's  to  the  leglift  of  my 
snuff  and  trout  stockangt  henkerchoff,  orange  fin  with  a  mosaic 
of  dispensations  and  a  froren  black  patata,  from  my  church  milli- 
ner. When  Lynch  Brother,  Withworkers,  Friends  and  Company 
with  T.  C.  King  and  the  Warden  of  Gal  way  is  prepared  to 
stretch  him  sacred  by  the  powers  to  the  starlight,  L.B.W.  Hemp, 
hemp,  hurray!  says  the  captain  in  the  moonlight.  I  could  put 
him  under  my  pallyass  and  slepp  on  him  all  nights  as  I  would 
roll  myself  for  holy  poly  over  his  borrowing  places.  How  we  will 
make  laugh  over  him  together,  me  and  my  Riley  in  the  Vickar's 
bed!  Quink!  says  I.  He  cawls  to  me  Granny-stream- Auborne 
when  I  am  hiding  under  my  hair  from  him  and  I  cool  him  my 
Finnyking  he's  so  joyant  a  bounder.  Plunk!  said  he.  Inasmuch 
as  I  am  delightful  to  be  able  to  state,  with  the  joy  of  lifing  in  my 
forty  winkers,  that  a  handsome  sovereign  was  freely  pledged 
in  their  pennis  in  the  sluts  maschine,  alonging  wath  a  cherry- 
wickerkishabrack  of  maryfruit  under  Shadow  La  Rose,  to  both 
the  legintimate  lady  performers  of  display  unquestionable,  Elsebett 
and  Marryetta  Gunning,  H  2  C,  by  that  noblesse  of  leechers  at 
his  Saxontannery  with  motto  in  Wwalshe's  ffrenchllatin:  O'Neill 
saw  Queen  Molly's  pants:  and  much  admired  engraving,  meaning 
complet  manly  parts  during  alleged  recent  act  of  our  chief 
mergey  margey  magistrades,  five  itches  above  the  kneecap,  as 
required  by  statues.  V.I.C.5.6.  If  you  won't  release  me  stop  to 
please  me  up  the  leg  of  me.  Now  you  see!  Respect.  S.V.P. 
Your  wife.  Amn.  Anm.  Amm.  Ann. 

—  You  wish  to  take  us,  Frui  Mria,  by  degrees,  as  artis  litter  arum- 
que  patrona  but  I  am  afraid,  my  poor  woman  of  that  same 
name,  what  with  your  silvanes  and  your  salvines,  you  are  misled. 

495 


—  Alas  for  livings'  pledjures ! 

—  Lordy  Daw  and  Lady  Don!  Uncle  Foozle  and  Aunty 
Jack!  Sure,  that  old  humbugger  was  boycotted  and  girlcutted 
in  debt  and  doom,  on  hill  and  haven,  even  by  the  show-the-flag 
flotilla,  as  I'm  given  now  to  understand,  illscAbed  in  all  the 
gratuitouses  and  conspued  in  the  takeyourhandaways.  Bumbty, 
tumbty.  Sot  on  a  Wall,  Mute  art  for  the  Million.  There  wasn't  an 
Archimandrite  of  Dane's  Island  and  the  townlands  nor  a  minx 
from  the  Isle  of  Woman  nor  a  one  of  the  four  cantins  nor  any  on 
the  whole  wheel  of  his  ecunemical  conciliabulum  nor  nogent 
ingen  meid  on  allad  the  hold  scurface  of  the  jorth  would  come 
next  or  nigh  him,  Mr  Eelwhipper^  seed  and  nursery  man,  or 
his  allgas  bumgalowre,  Auxilium  Meum  Solo  A  Domino  (Amsad), 
for  rime  or  ration,  from  piles  or  faces,  after  that. 

—  All  ears  did  wag,  old  Eire  wake  as  Piers  Aurell  was  flapper- 
gangsted. 

—  Recount! 

—  I  have  it  here  to  my  fingall's  ends.  This  liggy  piggy  wanted 
to  go  to  the  jampot.  And  this  leggy  peggy  spelt  pea.  And  theese 
lucky  puckers  played  at  pooping  tooletom.  Ma's  da.  Da's  ma. 
Madas.  Sadam. 

—  Pater  patruum  cum  jiliabus  familiarum.  Or,  but,  now,  and, 
ariring  out  of  her  mirgery  margery  watersheads  and,  to  change 
that  subjunct  from  the  traumaturgid  for  once  in  a  while  and  dart- 
ing back  to  stuff,  if  so  be  you  may  identify  yourself  with  the  him 
in  you,  that  fluctuous  neck  merchamtur,  bloodfadder  and  milk- 
mudder,  since  then  our  too  many  of  her,  Abha  na  Life,  and  getting 
on  to  dadaddy  again,  as  them  we're  ne'er  free  of,  was  he  in  tea 
e'er  he  went  on  the  bier  or  didn't  he  ontime  do  something  seemly 
heavy  in  sugar He  sent  out  Christy  Columb  and  he  came  back 
with  a  jailbird's  unbespokables  in  his  beak  and  then  he  sent  out 
Le  Caron  Crow  and  the  peacies  are  still  looking  for  him.  The 
seeker  from  the  swayed,  the  beesabouties  from  the  parent  swarm. 
Speak  to  the  right!  Rotacist  ca  canny!  He  caun  ne'er  be  bothered 
but  maun  e'er  be  waked.  If  there  is  a  future  in  every  past  that  is 
present  Quls  est  qui  non  novit  quinnigan  and  Qui  quae  quot  at 

496 


■ 


I 


Quinnigans  Quake!  Stump !  His  producers  are  they  not  his  con- 
sumers? Your  exagmination  round  his  factification  for  incam- 
ination  of  a  warping  process.  Declaim! 

—  Arra  irrara  hirrara  man,  weren't  they  arriving  in  clansdes- 
tinies  for  the  Imbandiment  of  Ad  Regias  Agni  Dapes^  fogabawlers 
and  panhibernskers,  after  the  crack  and  the  lean  years,  scalp j aggers 
and  houthhunters,  like  the  messicals  of  the  great  god,  a  scarlet 
trainful,  the  Twoedged  Petrard,  totalling,  leggats  and  prelaps,  in 
their  aggregate  ages  two  and  thirty  plus  undecimmed  centries 
of  them  with  insiders,  extraomnes  and  tuttifrutties  allcunct,  from 
Rathgar,  Rathanga,  Rountown  and  Rush,  from  America  Avenue 
and  Asia  Place  and  the  Affrian  Way  and  Europa  Parade  and  be- 
sogar  the  wallies  of  Noo  Soch  Wilds  and  from  Vico,  Mespil 
Rock  and  Sorrento,  for  the  lure  of  his  weal  and  the  fear  of  his 
oppidumic,  to  his  salon  de  espera  in  the  keel  of  his  kraal,  like 
lodes  of  ores  flocking  fast  to  Mount  Maximagnetic,  afeerd  he  was 
a  gunner  but  affaird  to  stay  away,  Merrionites,  Dumstdumb- 
drummers,  Luccanicans,  Ashtoumers,  Batterysby  Parkes  and 
Krumlin  Boyards,  Phillipsburgs,  Cabraists  and  Finglossies, 
Ballymunites,  Raheniacs  and  the  bettlers  of  Clontarf,  for  to  con- 
template in  manifest  and  pay  their  firstrate  duties  before  the  both 
of  him,  twelve  stone  a  side,  with  their  Thieve  le  Roue!  and  their 
ShvT  yr  Thrst!  and  their  Uisgye  ad  Inferos!  and  their  Usque  ad 
Ehhraios!  at  and  in  the  licensed  boosiness  primises  of  his  del- 
hightful  bazar  and  reunited  magazine  hall,  by  the  magazine  wall, 
Hosty's  and  Co,  Exports,  for  his  five  hundredth  and  sixtysixth 
borthday,  the  grand  old  Magennis  Mor,  Persee  and  Rahli,  taker 
of  the  tributes,  their  Rinseky  Poppakork  and  Piowtor  the  Grape, 
holding  Dunker's  durbar,  boot  kings  and  indiarubber  umpires 
and  shawhs  from  paisley  and  muftis  in  muslim  and  sultana 
reiseines  and  jordan  almonders  and  a  row  of  jam  sahibs  and  a 
odd  principeza  in  her  pettedcoat  and  the  queen  of  knight's  clubs 
and  the  claddagh  ringleaders  and  the  two  salaames  and  the  Haifa 
Ham  and  the  Hanzas  Khan  with  two  fat  Maharashers  and  the 
German  selver  geyser  and  he  polished  up,  protemptible,  tintanam- 
bulating  to  himsilf  so  silfrich,  and  there  was  J.  B.  Dunlop,  the 

497 


best  tyrent  of  ourish  times,  and  a  swanks  of  French  wine  Stuarts 
and  Tudor  keepsakes  and  the  Cesarevitch  for  the  current  coun- 
ter Leodegarius  Sant  Legerleger  riding  lapsaddlelonglegs  up  the 
oakses  staircase  on  muleback  like  Amaxodias  Isteroprotos,  hind- 
quarters to  the  fore  and  kick  to  the  lift,  and  he  handygrabbed  on 
to  his  trulley  natural  anthem:  Horsibus^  keep  your  tailyup^  and 
as  much  as  the  halle  of  the  vacant  fhroneroom,  Oldloafs 
Buttery,  could  safely  accomodate  of  the  houses  of  Orange  and 
Betters  M.P,  permeated  by  Druids  D.P,  Brehons  B.P,  and 
Flawhoolags  F.P,  and  Agiapommenites  A.P,  and  Antepum- 
melites  P.P,  and  Ulster  Kong  and  Munster's  Herald  with 
Athclee  Ensigning  and  Athlone  Poursuivant  and  his  Imperial 
Catchering,  his  fain  awan,  and  his  gemmynosed  sanctsons 
in  epheud  and  ordilawn  and  his  diamondskulled  granddaucher, 
Adamantaya  Liubokovskva,  all  murdering  Irish,  amok  and 
amak,  out  of  their  boom  companions  in  paunchjab  and  dogril 
and  pammel  and  gougerotty,  after  plenty  of  his  fresh  stout  and 
his  good  balls  of  malt,  not  to  forget  his  oels  a'mona  nor  his  beers 
o'ryely,  sopped  down  by  his  pani's  annagolorum,  (at  Kennedy's 
kiln  she  kned  her  dough,  back  of  her  bake  for  me,  buns !)  social- 
izing and  communicanting  in  the  deification  of  his  members,  for 
to  nobble  or  salvage  their  herobit  of  him,  the  poohpooher  old 
bolssloose,  with  his  arthurious  clayroses,  Dodderick  Ogonoch 
Wrack,  busted  to  the  wurld  at  large,  on  the  table  round,  with  the 
floodlight  switched  back,  as  true  as  the  Vernons  have  Brian's 
sword,  and  a  dozen  and  one  by  one  tilly  tallows  round  in  ring- 
campf,  circumassembled  by  his  daughters  in  the  foregiftness  of 
his  sons,  lying  high  as  he  lay  in  all  dimensions,  in  court  dress  and 
ludmers  chain,  with  a  hogo,  fluorescent  of  his  swathings,  round 
him,  like  the  cummulium  of  scents  in  an  italian  warehouse,  erica's 
clustered  on  his  hayir,  the  spectrem  of  his  prisent  mocking  the 
candiedights  of  his  dadtid,  bagpuddingpodded  to  the  deafspot, 
bewept  of  his  chilidrin  and  serafim,  poors  and  personalities,  ven- 
turous, drones  and  dominators,  ancients  and  auldancients,  with 
his  buttend  up,  expositoed  for  sale  after  referee's  inspection, 
bulgy  and  blowrious,  bunged  to  ignorious,  healed  cured  and 

498 


V 


I 


embalsemate,  pending  a  rouseruction  of  his  bogey,  most  highly 
astounded,  as  it  turned  up,  after  his  life  overlasting,  at  thus  being 
reduced  to  nothing. 

—  Bappy-go-gully  and  gaff  for  us  all!  And  all  his  morties 
calisenic,  tripping  a  trepas,  neniatwantyng:  Mulo  Mulelo !  Homo 
Humilo!  Dauncy  a  deady  O!  Dood  dood  dood!  O  Bawse!  O 
Boese!  O  Muerther!  O  Mord!  Mahmato!  Moutmaro!  O  Smir- 
tsch!  O  Smertz!  Woh  Hillill!  Woe  Hallall!  Thou  Thuoni!  Thou 
Thaunaton!  Umartir!  Udamnor!  Tschitt!  Mergue!  Eulumu! 
Huam  Khuam!  Malawinga!  Malawunga!  Ser  Oh  Ser!  See  ah_ 
.^See!  Hamovs!  Removes!  Mamor!  Rockquiem  eternuel  give  donal 
aye  in  dolmeny !  Bad  luck's  perpepperpot  loosen  his  eyis !  (Psich!). 

—  But  there's  leps  of  flam  in  Funnycoon's  Wick.  The  keyn 
has  passed.  Lung  lift  the  keying! 

—  God  save  you  king!  Muster  of  the  Hidden  Life!  "7^-^^^ 

—  God  serf  yous  kingly,  adipose  rex!  I  had  four  in  the  morn- 
ing and  a  couple  of  the  lunch  and  three  later  on,  but  your  saouls 
to  the  dhaoul,  do  ye.  Finnk.  Fime.  Fudd? 

—  Impassable  tissue  of  improbable  liyers!  D'yu  mean  to  sett 
there  where  y'are  now,  coddlin  your  supernumerary  leg,  wi'that 
bizar  tongue  in  yur  tolkshap,  and  your  hindies  and  shindies,  like  a 
muck  in  a  market,  Sorley  boy,  repeating  yurself,  and  tell  me  that.^ 

—  I  mean  to  sit  here  on  this  altknoll  where  you  are  now. 
Surly  guy,  replete  in  myself,  as  long  as  I  live,  in  my  homespins, 
like  a  sleepingtop,  with  all  that's' buried  ofsins  insince  insensed 
insidesofme.  If  I  can't  upset  this  pound  of  pressed  ollaves  I  can 
sit  up  zounds  of  sounds  upon  him. 

—  Oliver!  He  may  be  an  earthpresence.  Was  that  a  groan  or 
did  I  hear  the  Dingle  bagpipes  Wasting  war  and?  Watch! 

—  Tris  tris  a  ni  ma  meal  Prisoner  of  Love!  Bleating  Hart! 
Lowlaid  Herd!  Aubain  Hand!  Wonted  Foot!  Usque/  Usque/ 
Usque/  Lignum  in  .  .  . 

—  Rawth  of  Gar  and  Donnerbruck  Fire?  Is  the  strays  world 
moving  mound  or  what  static  babel  is  this,  tell  us? 

—  Whoishe  whoishe  whoishe  whoishe  linking  in?  Whoishe 
whoishe  whoishe? 

499 


—  The  snare  drum !  Lay  yer  lug  till  the  groun.  The  dead  giant 
manalive!  They're  playing  thimbles  and  bodkins.  Clan  of  the 
Gael!  Hop!  Whu's  within? 

—  Dovegall  and  finshark,  they  are  ring  to  the  rescune! 

—  Zinzin.  Zinzin. 

—  Crum  abu !  Cromwell  to  victory ! 

—  We'll  gore  them  and  gash  them  and  gun  them  and  gloat  on 
them. 

—  Zinzin. 

—  O,  widows  and  orphans,  it's  the  yeomen!  Redshanks  for 
ever!  Up  Lanes! 

—  The  cry  of  the  roedeer  it  is!  The  white  hind.  Their  slots, 
linklink,  the  hound  hunthorning!  Send  us  and  peace!  Title!  Title! 

—  Christ  in  our  irish  times!  Christ  on  the  airs  independence! 
Christ  hold  the  freedman's  chareman!  Christ  light  the  dully 
expressed ! 

—  Slog  slagt  and  sluaghter!  Rape  the  daughter!  Choke  the 
pope! 

—  Aure!  Cloudy  father!  Unsure!  Nongood! 

—  Zinzin. 

—  Sold!  I  am  sold!  Brinabride!  My  ersther!  My  sidster! 
Brinabride,  goodbye!  Brinabride!  I  sold! 

—  Pipette  dear!  Us!  Us!  Me!  Me! 

—  Fort!  Fort!  Bayroyt!  March! 

—  Me!  I'm  true.  True!  Isolde.  Pipette.  My  precious! 

—  Zinzin. 

—  Brinabride,  bet  my  price!  Brinabride! 

—  My  price,  my  precious.'^ 

—  Zin. 

—  Brinabride,  my  price!  When  you  sell  get  my  price! 

—  Zin. 

—  Pipette!  Pipette,  my  priceless  one! 

—  01  Mother  of  my  tears!  Believe  for  me!  Fold  thy  son! 

—  Zinzin.  Zinzin. 

—  Now  we're  gettin  it.  Tune  in  and  pick  up  the  forain 
counties!  Hello! 

500 


—  Zinzin. 

—  Hello!  Tittit!  Tell  your  title? 

—  Abride! 

—  Hellohello!  Ballymacarett!  Am  I  thru'  Iss?  Miss?  True? 

—  Tit!  What  is  the  ti .  .  ?  K 

SILENCE.  -"^^^  r^i^t  r^  7 

Act  drop.  Stand  by!  Blinders!  Curtain  up.  Juice,  please!  Foots! 

—  Hello!  Are  you  Cigar  shank  and  Wheat?        ^  ^ 

—  I  gotye.  Gobble  Ann's  Carrot  Cans. 

—  Parfey.  Now,  after  that  justajifF  siesta,  just  permit  me  a 
moment.  Challenger's  Deep  is  childsplay  to  this  but,  by  our 
soundings  in  the  swish  channels,  land  is  due.  A  truce  to  demobbed 
swarwords.  Clear  the  line,  priority  call!  Sybil!  Better  that  or 
this?  Sybil  Head  this  end!  Better  that  way?  Follow  the  baby  spot. 
Yes.  Very  good  now.  We  are  again  in  the  magnetic  field.  Do 
you  remember  on  a  particular  lukesummer  night,  following  a 
