
mens  in  gladshouses  they  shad  not  peggot  stones.  The  elephant's 
house  is  his  castle.  I  am  here  to  tell  you,  indeed  to  goodness,  that, 
allbe  I  discountenanced  beallpersuasions,  in  rinunciniation  of 
pomps  of  heretofore,  with  a  wax  too  held  in  hand,  I  am  thorgt- 
fulldt  to  do  dope  me  of  her  miscisprinks  and  by  virchow  of  those 
filthered  Ovocnas  presently  like  Browne  umbracing  Christina 
Anya,  after  the  Irishers,  to  convert  me  into  a  selt  (but  first  I  must 
proxy  babetise  my  old  antenaughties),  when,  as  Sigismond  Stol- 
terforth,  with  Rabbin  Robroost  for  my  auspicer  and  Leecher 
Rutty  for  my  lifearst  and  Lorencz  Pattorn  {Ehren  til  viktrae!^^ 
when  I  will  westerneyes  those  poor  sunuppers  and  outbreighten 
their  land's  eng.  A  man  should  stump  up  and  I  will  pay  my 
pretty  decent  trade  price  for  my  glueglue  gluecose,  peebles, 
were  it  even,  as  this  is,  the  legal  eric  for  infelicitous  conduict  (here 
incloths  placefined  my  pocketanchoredcheck)  and,  as  a  matter  of 
fact,  I  undertake  to  discontinue  entyrely  all  practices  and  I  deny 
wholeswiping  in  toto  at  my  own  request  in  all  stoytness  to  have 
confermentated  and  confoederated  and  agreed  in  times  prebellic, 
when  here  were  waders  for  the  trainsfolk,  as  it  is  now  nuggently 
laid  to  me,  with  a  friend  from  mine,  Mr  Billups,  pulleter,  my 
quarterbrother,  who  sometimes  he  is  doing  my  locum  for  me 
on  a  grubstake  and  whom  I  have  cleped  constoutuent,  for  so  it 
was  felt  by  me,  at  goodbuy  cootcoops  byusucapiture  a  mouth-  "^^ 
less  niggeress,  Blanchette  Brewster  from  Cherna  Djamja,  Blaw- 
lawnd-via-Brigstow,  or  to  illsell  my  fourth  part  in  her,  which  al- 
though allowed  of  in  Deuterogamy  as  in  several  places  of  Scrip- 
ture (copyright)  and  excluded  books  (they  should  quite  rightly 
verbanned  be),  would  seem  eggseggs  excessively  haroween  to  i^^'  p 
my  feelimbs  for  two  punt  scotch,  one  pollard  and  a  crockard  or  '^'S^ 
three  pipples  on  the  bitch.  Thou,  Prick's  Flame,  Uden  Sulfer, 
who  strikest  only  on  the  marryd  bokks,  enquick  me  if  so  be  I 
did  cophetuise  milady's  maid!  In  spect  of  her  beavers  she  is  a 
womanly  and  sacret.  Such  wear  a  frillick  for  my  comic  strip, 
Mons  Meg's  Monthly,  comes  out  aich  Fanagan's  Week,  to  bray 
at  by  clownsillies  in  Donkeybrook  Fair.  It  would  lackin  mackin 
Hodder's  and  Cocker's  erithmatic.  The  unpurdonable  preemp- 

537 


son  of  all  of  her  of  yourn,  by  Juno  Moneta!  If  she,  irished  Marry- 
onn  Teheresiann,  has  been  disposed  of  for  her  consideration,  I, 
Ledwidge  Salvatorious,  am  tradefully  unintiristid.  And  if  she  is 
still  further  talc  slopping  over  her  cocoa  contours,  I  hwat  mick 
angars,  am  strongly  of  opinion  why  I  should  not  be.  Inprobable! 
I  do  not  credit  one  word  of  it  from  such  and  suchess  mistra- 
versers.  Just  feathers!  Nanenities!  Or  to  have  ochtroyed  to 
resolde  or  borrough  by  exchange  same  super  melkkaart,  means 
help;  best  Brixton  high  yellow,  no  outings:  cent  for  cent  on 
Auction's  Bridge.  'Twere  a  honnibel  crudelty  wert  so  tente- 
ment  to  their  naktlives  and  scatab  orgias  we  devour  about  in 
the  mightyevil  roohms  of  encient  cartage.  Utterly  improperable ! 
Not  for  old  Crusos  or  white  soul  of  gold!  A  pipple  on  the 
panis,  two  claps  on  the  cansill,  or  three  pock  pocks  cassey 
knocked  on  the  postern!  Not  for  one  testey  tickey  culprik's 
coynds  ore  for  all  ecus  in  cunziehowffse!  So  hemp  me  Cash! 
I  meanit. 

My  herrings!  The  surdity  of  it!  Amean  to  say.  Her  bare 
idears,  it  is  choochoo  chucklesome.  Absurd  bargain,  mum,  will 
call.  One  line  with!  One  line,  with  with!  Will  ate  everadayde  sau- 
mone  like  a  boyne  alive  O.  The  tew  cherripickers,  with  their 
Catheringnettes,  Lizzy  and  Lissy  Mycock,  from  Street  Flesh- 
shambles,  were  they  moon  at  aube  with  hespermun  and  I  their 
covin  guardient,  I  would  not  know  to  contact  such  gretched 
youngsteys  in  my  ways  from  Haddem  or  any  suistersees  or 
heiresses  of  theirn,  claiming  by,  through,  or  under  them.  Ous  of 
their  freiung  pfann  into  myne  foyer.  Her  is  one  which  rassembled 
to  mein  enormally.  The  man  what  shocked  his  shanks  at  contey 
Carlow's.  He  is  DeucoUion.  Each  habe  goheerd,  uptaking  you 
are  innersence,  but  we  sen  you  meet  sose  infance.  Deucollion! 
Odor.  Evilling  chimbes  is  smutsick  rivulverblott  but  thee  hard 
casted  thereass  pigstenes  upann  Congan's  shootsmen  in  Schot- 
tenhof,  ekeascent.'*  Igen  Deucollion!  I  liked  his  Gothamm  chic! 
Stuttertub!  What  a  shrubbery  trick  to  play!  I  will  put  my  oath- 
head  unner  my  whitepot  for  ransom  of  beeves  and  will  stand 
me  where  I  stood  mine  in  all  free  heat  between  Pelagios  and  little 

538 


Chistayas  by  Roderick's  our  mostmonolith,  after  my  both  ears- 
toear  and  brebreeches  buybibles  and,  minhatton,  testify  to  my 
unclothed  virtue  by  the  longstone  erectheion  of  our  allfirst  man- 
here.  I  should  tell  you  that  honestly,  on  my  honour  of  a  Near- 
wicked,  I  always  think  in  a  wordworth's  of  that  primed  favou- 
rite continental  poet,  Daunty,  Gouty  and  Shopkeeper,  A.  G., 
whom  the  generality  admoyers  in  this  that  is  and  that  this  is  to 
come.  Like  as  my  palmer's  past  policy  I  have  had  my  best  mas- 
ter's lessons,  as  the  public  he  knows,  and  do  you  know,  home- 
sters, I  honestly  think,  if  I  have  failed  lamentably  by  accident 
benefits  though  shintoed,  spitefired,  perplagued  and  cram- 
krieged,  I  am  doing  my  dids  bits  and  have  made  of  my  prudentials 
good.  I  have  been  told  I  own  stolemines  or  something  of  that 
sorth  in  the  sooth  of  Spainien.  Hohohoho !  Have  I  said  ogso  how 
I  abhor  myself  vastly  (truth  to  tell)  and  do  repent  to  my  nether- 
heart  of  suntry  clothing?  The  amusin  part  is,  I  will  say,  hotel- 
men,  that  since  I,  over  the  deep  drowner  Athacleeath  to  seek 
again  Irrlanding,  shamed  in  mind,  with  three  plunges  of  my 
ruddertail,  yet  not  a  bottlenim,  vanced  imperial  standard  by 
weaponright  and  platzed  mine  residenze,  taking  bourd  and 
burgage  under  starrymisty  and  ran  and  operated  my  brixtol  selec- 
tion here  at  thollstall,  for  mean  straits  male  with  evorage  fimmel, 
in  commune  soccage  among  strange  and  enemy,  among  these 
plotlets,  in  Poplinstown,  alore  Fort  Dunlip,  then-on-sea,  hole 
of  Serbonian  bog,  now  city  of  magnificent  distances,  good- 
walldabout,  with  talus  and  counterscarp  and  pale  of  palisades, 
upon  martiell  siegewin,  with  Abbot  Warre  to  blesse,  on  yon 
slauchterday  of  cleantarriffs,  in  that  year  which  I  have  called 
myriabellous,  and  overdrave  these  marken  (the  soord  on  Whence- 
hislaws  was  mine  and  mine  the  prusshing  stock  of  Allbrecht 
the  Beam),  under  patroonshaap  of  our  good  kingsinnturns, 
T.  R.  H.  Urban  First  and  Champaign  Chollyman  and  Hungry 
the  Loaved  and  Hangry  the  Hathed,  here  where  my  tenenure  of 
office  and  my  toils  of  domestication  first  began,  with  weight  of 
woman  my  skat  and  skuld  but  Flukie  of  the  Ravens  as  my  sure 
piloter,  famine  with  Englisch  sweat  and  oppedemics,  the  two- 

539 


toothed  dragon  worms  with  allsort  serpents,  has  compolitely 
seceded  from  this  landleague  of  many  nations  and  open  and 
notorious  naughty  livers  are  found  not  on  our  rolls.  This  seat  of 
our  city  it  is  of  all  sides  pleasant,  comfortable  and  wholesome. 
If  you  would  traverse  hills,  they  are  not  far  off.  If  champain  land, 
it  lieth  of  all  parts.  If  you  would  be  delited  with  fresh  water,  the 
famous  river,  called  of  Ptolemy  the  Libnia  Labia,  runneth  fast 
by.  If  you  will  take  the  view  of  the  sea,  it  is  at  hand.  Give  heed! 

—  Do  Drumcollogher  whatever  you  do! 

—  Visitei  Drumcollogher-la- Belief 

—  Be  suke  and  sie  so  ersed  Drumcollogher/ 

—  J^edi  Drumcollogher  e  poi  Moonis, 

—  Things  are  not  as  they  were.  Let  me  briefly  survey.  Pro  clam 
a  shun!  Pip!  Peep!  Pipitch!  Ubipop  jay  piped,  ibipep  goes  the 
whistle.  Here  Tyeburn  throttled,  massed  murmars  march:  where 
the  bus  stops  there  shop  I:  here  which  ye  see,  yea  reste.  On  me, 
your  sleeping  giant.  Estoesto!  Estote  sunto!  From  the  hold  of 
my  capt  in  altitude  till  the  mortification  that's  my  fate.  The  end 
of  aldest  mosest  ist  the  beginning  of  all  thisorder  so  the  last  of 
their  hansbailis  shall  the  first  in  our  sheriffsby.  New  highs  for 
all!  Redu  Negru  may  be  black  in  tawn  but  under  them  lintels 
are  staying  my  horneymen  meet  each  his  mansiemagd.  For  peers 
and  gints,  quaysirs  and  galleyliers,  fresk  letties  from  the  say  and 
stale  headygabblers,  gaingangers  and  dudder  wagoners,  pullars 
off  societies  and  pushers  on  rothmere's  homes.  Obeyance  from 
the  townsmen  spills  felixity  by  the  toun.  Our  bourse  and  politico- 
ecomedy  are  in  safe  with  good  Jock  Shepherd,  our  lives  are  on 
sure  in  sorting  with  Jonathans,  wild  and  great.  Been  so  free! 
Thank  you,  besters!  Hattentats  have  mindered.  Blaublaze  devil- 
bobs  have  gone  from  the  mode  and  hairtrigger  nicks  are  quite 
out  of  time  now.  Thuggeries  are  reere  as  glovars'  metins,  lepers 
lack,  ignerants  show  beneath  suspicion  like  the  bitterhalves  of 
esculapuloids.  In  midday's  mallsight  let  Miledd  discurverself. 
Me  ludd  in  her  hide  park  seek  Minuinette.  All  is  waldy  bonums. 
Blownose  aerios  we  luft  to  you !  Firebugs,  good  blazes !  Lubbers, 
kepp  your  poudies  drier!  Seamen,  we  segn  your  skivs  and  wives! 

540 


Seven  ills  so  barely  as  centripunts  havd  I  habt,  seaventy  seavens 
for  circumference  inkeptive  are  your  hill  prospect.  Braid  Black- 
fordrock,  the  Calton,  the  Liberton,  Craig  and  Lockhart's,  A. 
Costofino,  R.  Thursitt.  The  chort  of  Nicholas  Within  was  my 
guide  and  I  raised  a  dome  on  the  wherewithouts  of  Michan:  by 
awful  tors  my  wellworth  building  sprang  sky  spearing  spires, 
cloud  cupoled  campaniles:  further  this.  By  fineounce  and  im- 
posts I  got  and  grew  and  by  grossscruple  gat  I  grown  outreaches- 
ly:  murage  and  lestage  were  my  mains  for  Ouerlord's  tithing 
and  my  drains  for  render  and  prender  the  doles  and  the  tribute: 
I  was  merely  out  of  my  mint  with  all  the  percussors  on  my 
braincap  till  I  struck  for  myself  and  muched  morely  by  token:  to 
Sirrherr  of  Gambleden  ruddy  money,  to  Madame  of  Pitymount 
I  loue  yous.  Paybads  floriners  moved  in  hugheknots  against  us  and 
I  matt  them,  pepst  to  papst,  barthelemew:  milreys  (mark!)  on- 
fell,  and  (Luc!)  I  arose  Daniel  in  Leonden.  Bulafests  onvied  me, 
Corkcuttas  graatched.  Atabey!  I  braved  Brien  Berueme  to  berow 
him  against  the  Loughlins,  all  her  tolkies  shraking:  Fugabollags ! 
Lusqu'au  bout!  If  they  had  ire  back  of  eyeball  they  got  danage 
on  front  tooth:  theres  were  revelries  at  ridottos,  here  was  rivalry 
in  redoubt:  I  wegschicked  Duke  Wellinghof  to  reshockle  Roy 
Shackleton:  Walhalloo,  Walhalloo,  Walhalloo,  mourn  in  plein! 
Under  law's  marshall  and  warschouw  did  I  thole  till  lead's 
plumbate,  ping  on  pang,  reliefed  me.  I  made  praharfeast  upon 
acorpolous  and  fastbroke  down  in  Neederthorpe.  I  let  faireviews 
in  on  slobodens  but  ranked  rothgardes  round  wrathmindsers:  I 
bathandbaddend  on  mendicity  and  I  corocured  off  the  unoculated. 
Who  can  tell  their  tale  whom  I  filled  ad  liptum  on  the  plain  of 
Soulsbury.^  With  three  hunkered  peepers  and  twa  and  twas! 
For  sleeking  beauties  I  spinned  their  nightinveils,  to  slumbred 
beast  I  tummed  the  thief  air.  Round  the  musky  moved  a  mur- 
mel  but  mewses  whinninaird  and  belluas  zoomed:  tendulcis 
tunes  like  water  parted  fluted  up  from  the  westinders  while  from 
gorges  in  the  east  came  the  strife  of  ourangoontangues.  All  in 
my  thicville  Escuterre  ofen  was  thorough  fear  but  in  the  meck- 
ling  of  my  burgh  Belvaros  was  the  site  forbed:  tuberclerosies  I 

541 


reized  spudfully  from  the  murphyplantz  Hawkinsonia  and  berri- 
berries  from  the  pletoras  of  the  Irish  shou.  I  heard  my  liberti- 
lands  making  free  through  their  curraghcoombs,  my  trueblues 
hurusalaming  before  Wailingtone*s  Walh  I  richmounded  the 
rainelag  in  my  bathtub  of  roundwood  and  conveyed  it  with 
cheers  and  cables,  roaring  mighty  shouts,  through  my  longer- 
tubes  of  elm:  out  of  fundness  for  the  outozone  I  carried  them 
amd  curried  them  in  my  Putzemdown  cars  to  my  Kommeandine 
hotels:  I  made  sprouts  fontaneously  from  Philuppe  Sobriety  in 
the  coupe  that's  cheyned  for  noon  inebriates:  when  they  weaned 
weary  of  that  bibbing  I  made  infusion  more  infused:  sowerpacers 
of  the  vinegarth,  obtemperate  unto  me!  When  you  think  me  in 
my  coppeecuffs  look  in  ware  would  you  meckamockame,  as  you 
pay  in  caabman's  sheltar  tot  the  ites  like  you  corss  the  tees. 
Wherefore  watch  ye  well!  For,  while  I  oplooked  the  first  of 
Janus's  straight,  I  downsaw  the  last  of  Christmas  steps:  syndic 
podestril  and  on  the  rates,  I  for  indigent  and  intendente:  in 
Forum  Foster  I  demosthrenated  my  folksfiendship,  enmy  pupuls 
felt  my  burk  was  no  worse  than  their  brite:  Sapphrageta  and 
Consciencia  were  undecidedly  attached  to  me  but  the  maugher 
machrees  and  the  auntieparthenopes  my  schwalby  words  with 
litted  spongelets  set  their  soakye  pokeys  and  botchbons  afume: 
Fletcher-Flemmings,  elisaboth,  how  interquackeringly  they  ro- 
gated  me,  their  golden  one,  I  inhesitant  made  replique:  Mesde- 
memdes  to  leursieuresponsor:  and  who  in  hillsaide,  don't  you 
let  flyfire  till  you  see  their  whites  of  the  bunkers'  eyes !  Mr  An- 
swers: Brimgem  young,  bringem  young,  bringem  young!:  in 
my  bethel  of  Solyman's  I  accouched  their  rotundaties  and  I  turn- 
keyed  most  insultantly  over  raped  lutetias  in  the  lock:  I  gave  bax 
of  biscums  to  the  jacobeaters  and  pottage  bakes  to  the  esausted; 
I  dehlivered  them  with  freakandesias  by  the  constant  droppings 
from  my  smalls  instalmonths  while  I  titfortotalled  up  their 
farinadays  for  them  on  my  slataper's  slate  with  my  chandner's 
chauk:  I  jaunted  on  my  jingelbrett  rapt  in  neckloth  and  sashes, 
and  I  beggered  about  the  amnibushes  like  belly  in  a  bowle.  In 
the  humanity  of  my  heart  I  sent  out  heyweywomen  to  refresh 

542 


1 


t 


the  ballwearied  and  then,  doubling  megalopolitan  poleetness, 
my  great  great  greatest  of  these  charities,  devaleurised  the  base 
fellows  for  the  curtailment  of  their  lower  man:  with  a  slog  to 
square  leg  I  sent  my  boundary  to  Botany  Bay  and  I  ran  up  a 
score  and  four  of  mes  while  the  Yanks  were  buckling  the  Em- 
pire: I  have  been  reciping  om  omominous  letters  and  widely- 
signed  petitions  full  of  pieces  of  pottery  about  my  monumental- 
ness  as  a  thingabolls  and  I  have  been  inchanting  causeries  to  the 
feshest  cheoilboys  so  that  they  are  allcalling  on  me  for  the  song 
of  a  birtch:  the  more  secretely  bi  built,  the  more  openly  palas- 
tered.  Attent!  Couch  hear!  I  have  becket  my  vonderbilt  hutch 
in  sunsmidnought  and  at  morningrise  was  encampassed  of 
mushroofs.  Rest  and  bethinkful,  with  licence,  thanks.  I  con- 
sidered the  lilies  on  the  veldt  and  unto  Balkis  did  I  disclothe 
mine  glory.  And  this.  This  missy,  my  taughters,  and  these  man, 
my  son,  from  my  fief  of  the  villa  of  the  Ostmanorum  to  Thor- 
stan's,  recte  Thomars  Sraid,  and  from  Huggin  Pleaze  to  William 
Inglis  his  house,  that  man  de  Loundres,  in  all  their  barony  of 
Saltus,  bonders  and  foeburghers,  helots  and  zelots,  strutting  oges 
and  swaggering  macks,  the  darsy  jeamses,  the  drury  joneses, 
redmaids  and  bleucotts,  in  hommage  all  and  felony,  all  who  have 
received  tickets,  fair  home  overcrowded,  tidy  but  very  little 
furniture,  respectable,  whole  family  attends  daily  mass  and  is 
dead  sick  of  bread  and  butter,  sometime  in  the  militia,  mentally 
strained  from  reading  work  on  German  physics,  shares  closet 
with  eight  other  dwellings,  more  than  respectable,  getting  com- 
fortable parish  relief,  wageearner  freshly  shaven  from  prison, 
highly  respectable,  planning  new  departure  in  Mountgomery 
cyclefinishing,  eldest  son  will  not  serve  but  peruses  Big-man-up- 
in-the-Sky  scraps,  anoopanadoon  lacking  backway,  quasi  respec- 
table, pays  ragman  in  bones  for  faded  windowcurtains,  staircase 
continually  lit  up  with  guests,  particularly  respectable,  house 
lost  in  dirt  and  blocked  with  refuse,  getting  on  like  Roe's  dis- 
tillery on  fire,  slovenly  wife  active  with  the  jug,  in  business  for 
himself,  has  a  tenth  illegitimate  coming,  partly  respectable, 
following  correspondence  courses,  chucked  work  over  row,  both 

543 


cheeks  kissed  at  levee  by  late  marquess  of  Zetland,  sharing  closet 
which  is  profusely  written  over  with  eleven  other  subscribers, 
once  respectable,  open  hallway  pungent  of  Baltic  dishes,  bangs 
kept  woman's  head  against  wall  thereby  disturbing  neighbours, 
private  chapel  occupies  return  landing,  removal  every  other 
quarter  day,  case  one  of  peculiar  hopelessness,  most  respectable, 
nightsoil  has  to  be  removed  through  snoring  household,  eccen- 
tric naval  officer  not  quite  steady  enjoys  weekly  churchwarden 
and  laugh  while  reading  foreign  pictorials  on  clumpstump  before 
door,  known  as  the  trap,  widow  rheumatic  and  chars,  haunted, 
condemned  and  execrated,  of  dubious  respectability,  tools  too 
costly  pledged  or  uninsured,  reformed  philanthropist  whenever 
feasible  takes  advantage  of  unfortunates  against  dilapidating 
ashpits,  serious  student  is  eating  his  last  dinners,  floor  dangerous 
for  unaccompanied  old  clergymen,  thoroughly  respectable,  many 
uncut  pious  books  in  evidence,  nearest  watertap  two  hundred 
yards'  run  away,  fowl  and  bottled  gooseberry  frequently  on 
table,  man  has  not  had  boots  off  for  twelve  months,  infant  being 
taught  to  hammer  flat  piano,  outwardly  respectable,  sometimes 
hears  from  titled  connection,  one  foot  of  dust  between  banister 
and  cracked  wall,  wife  cleans  stools,  eminently  respectable,  otta- 
wark  and  regular  loafer,  should  be  operated  would  she  consent, 
deplorable  rent  in  roof,  claret  cellar  cobwebbed  since  the  ponti- 
ficate of  Leo,  wears  drill  trousers  and  collects  rare  buddhas, 
underages  very  treacly  and  verminous  have  to  be  separated,  sits 
up  with  fevercases  for  one  and  threepence,  owns  two  terraces 
(back  to  back  breeze),  respectable  in  every  way,  harmless  im- 
becile supposingly  weakminded,  a  sausage  every  Sunday,  has  a 
stafl"  of  eight  servants,  outlook  marred  by  ne'er-do-wells  using 
the  laneway,  lieabed  sons  go  out  with  sisters  immediately  after 
dark,  has  never  seen  the  sea,  travels  always  with  her  eleven 
trunks  of  clothing,  starving  cat  left  in  disgust,  the  pink  of  re- 
spectability, resting  after  colonial  service,  labours  at  plant,  the 
despair  of  his  many  benefactresses,  calories  exclusively  from 
Rowntrees  and  dumplings,  one  bar  of  sunlight  does  them  all 
january  and  half  february,  the  V.  de  V's  (animal  diet)  live  in  five- 

544 


1 


1 


I 


I 


i 


storied  semidetached  but  rarely  pay  tradesmen,  went  security 
for  friend  who  absconded,  shares  same  closet  with  fourteen  simi- 
lar cottages  and  an  illfamed  lodginghouse,  more  respectable  than 
some,  teawidow  pension  but  held  to  purchase,  inherited  silk  hat 
from  father-in-law,  head  of  domestic  economy  never  mentioned, 
queery  how  they  live,  reputed  to  procure,  last  four  occupants 
carried  out,  mental  companionship  with  mates  only,  respecta- 
bility unsuccessfully  aimed  at,  copious  holes  emitting  mice,  de- 
coration from  Uganda  chief  in  locked  ivory  casket,  grandmother 
has  advanced  alcoholic  amblyopia,  the  terror  of  Goodmen's 
Field,  and  respected  and  respectable,  as  respectable  as  respec- 
table can  respectably  be,  though  their  orable  amission  were  the 
herrors  I  could  have  expected,  all,  let  them  all  come,  they  are  my 
villeins,  with  chartularies  I  have  talledged  them.  Wherfor  I  will  and 
firmly  command,  as  I  willed  and  firmly  commanded,  upon  my 
royal  word  and  cause  the  great  seal  now  to  be  affixed,  that  from 
the  farthest  of  the  farther  of  their  fathers  to  their  children's  chil- 
dren's children  they  do  inhabit  it  and  hold  it  for  me  unencum- 
bered and  my  heirs,  firmly  and  quietly,  amply  and  honestly, 
and  with  all  the  liberties  and  free  customs  which  the  men  of  Tol- 
bris,  a  city  of  Tolbris,  have  at  Tolbris,  in  the  county  of  their  city 
and  through  whole  my  land.  Hereto  my  vouchers,  knive  and 
snuffbuchs.  Fee  for  farm.  Enwreak  us  wrecks.  2:^5/ rsC^,^  Ssg.^ 

Struggling  forlongs  I  have  livramentoed,  milles  on  milles  of 
mancipelles.  Lo,  I  have  looked  upon  my  pumpadears  in  their 
easancies  and  my  drummers  have  tattled  tall  tales  of  me  in  the  land: 
in  morgenattics  litt  I  hope,  in  seralcellars  louched  I  bleakmealers: 
on  my  siege  of  my  mighty  I  was  parciful  of  my  subject  but  in  street 
wauks  that  are  darkest  I  debelledem  superb:  I  deemed  the  drugtails 
in  my  pettycourts  and  domstered  dustyfeets  in  my  husinclose:  at 
Guy's  they  were  swathed,  at  Foulke's  slashed,  the  game  for  a 
Gomez,  the  loyfor  a  lynch:if  I  was  magmonimoss  as  staidylavgiver 
I  revolucanized  by  my  eructions:  the  hye  and  bye  wayseeds  I 
scattered  em,  in  my  graben  fields  sew  sowage  I  gathered  em:  in 
Sheridan's  Circle  my  wits  repose,  in  black  pitts  of  the  pestered 
Lenfant  he  is  dummed.  (Hearts  of  Oak,  may  ye  root  to  piece! 

545 


Rechabites  obstain!  Clayed  sheets,  pineshrouded,  wake  not,  walk 
not!  Sigh  lento,  Morgh!)  Quo  warranto  has  his  greats  my  soliven 
and  puissant  lord  V.  king  regards  for  me  and  he  has  given  to  me 
my  necknamesh  (flister  it!)  which  is  second  fiddler  to  nomen. 
These  be  my  genteelician  arms.  At  the  crest,  two  young  frish, 
etoiled,  flappant,  devoiled  of  their  habiliments,  vested  sable,  with- 
drewers  argent.  For  the  boss  a  coleopter,  pondant,  partifesswise, 
blazoned  sinister,  at  the  slough,  proper.  In  the  lower  field  a  terce 
of  lanciers,  shaking  unsheathed  shafts,  their  arms  crossed  in  sal- 
tire,  embusked,  sinople.  Motto,  in  letters  portent:  Hery  Crass 
Evohodie,  Idle  were  it,  repassing  from  elserground  to  the  elder 
disposition,  to  inquire  whether  I,  draggedasunder,  be  the  forced 
generation  of  group  marriage,  holocryptogam,  of  my  essenes,  or 
carried  of  cloud  from  land  of  locust,  in  ouzel  galley  borne,  I, 
huddled  til  summone  be  the  massproduct  of  teamwork,  three 
surtouts  wripped  up  in  itchother's,  two  twin  pritticoaxes  lived  as 
one,  troubled  in  trine  or  dubildin  too,  for  abram  nude  be  I  or 
roberoyed  with  the  faineans,  of  Feejeean  grafted  ape  on  merfish, 
surrounded  by  obscurity,  by  my  virtus  of  creation  and  by  boon 
of  promise,  by  my  natural  born  freeman's  journeymanright  and 
my  otherchurch's  inher  light,  in  so  and  such  a  manner  as  me  it 
so  besitteth,  most  surely  I  pretend  and  reclam  to  opt  for  simul- 
taneous. Till  daybowbreak  and  showshadows  flee.  Thus  be  hek. 
Verily!  Verily!  Time,  place! 

—  What  is  your  numb.'^  Bun! 

—  Who  gave  you  t;hat  iiumb?  Poo! 

—  Have  you  put  in  all  your  sparepennies.'^  Fm  listening.  Sree! 

—  Keep  clear  of  propennies!  Fore! 

—  Mr  Televox,  Mrs  Taubiestimm  and  invisible  friends!  I  may- 
may  mean  to  say.  Annoyin  part  of  it  was,  had  faithful  Fulvia, 
following  the  wiening  courses  of  this  world,  turned  her  back  on 
her  ways  to  gon  on  uphills  upon  search  of  louvers,  brunette  men  of 
Earalend,  Chief  North  Paw  and  Chief  Goes  in  Black  Water  and 
Chief  Brown  Pool  and  Chief  Night  Cloud  by  the  Deeps,  or  again 
had  Fluvia,  amber  whitch  she  was,  left  her  chivily  crookcrook 
crocus  bed  at  the  bare  suggestions  of  some  prolling  bywaymen 

546 


from  Moabit  who  could  have  abused  of  her,  the  foxrogues,  there 
might  accrue  advantage  to  ask  wher  in  pellmell  her  deceivers 
sinned.  Yet  know  it  was  vastly  otherwise  which  I  have  heard  it 
by  mmummy  goods  waif,  as  I,  chiefly  endmost  hartyly  aver,  for 
Fulvia  Fluvia,  iddle  woman  to  the  plusneeborn,  ever  did  ensue 
tillstead  the  things  that  pertained  unto  fairnesse,  this  wharom 
I  am  fawned  on,  that  which  was  loost.  Even  so,  for  I  waged 
love  on  her;  and  spoiled  her  undines.  And  she  wept:  O  my 
lors! 

—  Till  we  meet ! 

—  Ere  we  part! 

—  Tollollall! 

—  This  time  a  hundred  years! 

—  But  I  was  firm  with  her.  And  I  did  take  the  reached  of  my 
delights,  my  jealousy,  ymashkt,  beyashmakt,  earswathed,  snout- 
snooded,  and  did  raft  her  flumingworthily  and  did  leftlead  her 
overland  the  pace,  from  lacksleap  up  to  liffsloup,  tiding  down,  as 
portreeve  should,  whimpering  by  Kevin's  creek  and  Hurdlesford 
and  Gardener's  Mall,  long  rivierside  drive,  embankment  large, 
to  Ringsend  Flott  and  Ferry,  where  she  began  to  bump  a  little 
bit,  my  dart  to  throw:  and  there,  by  wavebrink,  on  strond  of 
south,  with  mace  to  masthigh,  taillas  Cowhowling,  quailless 
Highjakes,  did  I  upreized  my  magicianer's  puntpole,  the  tridont 
sired  a  tritan  stock,  farruler,  and  I  bade  those  polyfizzyboisterous 
seas  to  retire  with  hemselves  from  os  (rookwards,  thou  seasea 
stamoror!)  and  I  abridged  with  domfine  norsemanship  till  I  had 
done  abate  her  maidan  race,  my  baresark  bride,  and  knew  her 
fleshly  when  with  all  my  bawdy  did  I  her  whorship,  min 
bryllupswibe:  Heaven,  he  hallthundered;  Heydays,  he  flung 
blissforhers.  And  I  cast  my  tenspan  joys  on  her,  arsched  over- 
tupped,  from  bank  of  call  to  echobank,  by  dint  of  strongbow 
(Galata!  Galata!)  so  streng  we  were  in  one,  malestream  in 
shegulf:  and  to  rings tresse  I  thumbed  her  with  iern  of  Erin 
and  tradesmanmarked  her  lieflang  mine  for  all  and  singular,  iday, 
igone,  imorgans,  and  for  ervigheds:  base  your  peak,  you!  you, 
strike  your  flag!:  (what  screech  of  shippings!  what  low  of  dampf- 

547 


bulls!):  from  Livland,  hoks  zivios,  from  Lettland,  skall  vives! 
With  Impress  of  Asias  and  Queen  Columbia  for  her  pairanymphs 
and  the  singing  sands  for  herbrides'  music:  goosegaze  annoynted 
uns,  canailles  canzoned  and  me  to  she  her  shyblumes  lifted:  and 
I  pudd  a  name  and  wedlock  boltoned  round  her  the  which  to 
carry  till  her  grave,  my  durdin  dearly,  Appia  Lippia  Pluviabilla, 
whiles  I  herr  lifer  amstell  and  been:  I  chained  her  chastemate  to 
grippe  fiuming  snugglers,  her  chambrett  I  bestank  so  to  spunish 
furiosos:  I  was  her  hochsized,  her  cleavunto,  her  everest,  she  was 
my  annie,  my  lauralad,  my  pisoved:  who  cut  her  ribbons  when 
nought  my  prowes?  who  expoused  that  havenliness  to  beacha- 
lured  ankerrides  when  not  I,  freipforter?:  in  trinity  huts  they 
met  my  dame,  pick  of  their  poke  for  me:  when  I  foregather  'twas 
my  sumbad,  if  I  farseeker  itch  my  list:  had  I  not  workit  in  my 
cattagut  with  dogshunds'  crotts  to  clene  and  had  I  not  gifted 
of  my  coataways,  constantonoble's  aim:  and,  fortiffed  by  my 
right  as  man  of  capitol,  I  did  umgyrdle  her  about,  my  vermin- 
celly  vinagerette,  with  all  loving  kindness  as  far  as  in  man's 
might  it  lay  and  enfranchised  her  to  liberties  of  fringes:  and  I 
gave  until  my  lilienyounger  turkeythighs  soft  goods  and  hard- 
i^are  (catalogue,  passim)  and  ladderproof  hosiery  lines  (see 
stockinger's  raiment),  cocquette  coiffs  (see  Agnes'  hats)  and 
peningsworths  of  the  best  taste  of  knaggs  of  jets  and  silvered 
waterroses  and  geegaws  of  my  pretty  novelties  and  wispywaspy 
frocks  of  redferns  and  lauralworths,  trancepearances  such  as 
women  cattle  bare  and  peltries  piled,  the  peak  of  Pim's  and 
Slyne's  and  Sparrow's,  loomends  day  lumineused  luxories  on 
looks,  La  Primamhcy  Pyrrha  Pyrrhine^  Or  de  Reinebeau^  Sourire 
d'Hiver  and  a  crinoline,  wide  a  shire,  and  pattens  for  her  trilibies 
that  know  she  might  the  tortuours  of  the  boots  and  bedes  of 
wampun  with  to  toy  and  a  murcery  glaze  of  shard  to  mirrow,  for 
all  daintiness  by  me  and  theetime,  the  cupandnaggin  hour:  and 
I  wound  around  my  swanchen's  neckplace  a  school  of  shells  of 
moyles  marine  to  swing  their  saysangs  in  her  silents:  and,  upping 
her  at  king's  count,  her  aldritch  cry  oloss  unheading,  what 
though  exceeding  bitter,  I  pierced  her  beak  with  order  of  the 

548 


Danabrog  (Cunnig's  great!  Soli  leve!  Soil  level):  with  mare*s 
greese  cressets  at  Leonard's  and  Dunphy's  and  Madonna  Ian- 
thorns  before  quintacasas  and  tallonkindles  spearhead  syngeing 
nickendbookers  and  mhutton  lightburnes  dipdippingdownes  in 
blackholes,  the  tapers  of  the  topers  and  his  buntingpall  at  hoist; 
for  days  there  was  no  night  for  nights  were  days  and  our  folk  had 
rest  from  Blackheathen  and  the  pagans  from  the  prince  of  pacis: 
what  was  trembling  sod  quaked  no  more,  what  were  frozen  loins 
were  stirred  and  lived:  gone  the  septuor,  dark  deadly  dismal  dole- 
ful desolate  dreadful  desperate,  no  more  the  tolvmaans,  bloody 
gloomy  hideous  fearful  furious  alarming  terrible  mournful 
sorrowful  frightful  appalling:  peace,  perfect  peace:  and  I  hung  up 
at  Yule  my  duindleeng  lunas,  helphelped  of  Kettil  Flashnose,  for 
the  souperhore  of  my  frigid  one,  coloumha  mea^  frimosa  mea^  in 
"Wastewindy  tarred  strate  and  Elgin's  marble  halles  lamping 
limp  from  black  to  block,  through  all  Livania's  volted  ampire, 
from  anodes  to  cathodes  and  from  the  topazolites  of  Mourne, 
Wykinloeflare,  by  Arklow's  sapphire  siomen's  lure  and  Wexter- 
ford's  hook  and  crook  lights  to  the  polders  of  Hy  Kinsella: 
avenyue  ceen  my  peurls  ahumming,  the  crown  to  my  estuarine 
munipicence?:  three  firths  of  the  sea  I  swept  with  draughtness 
and  all  ennempties  I  bottled  em  up  in  bellomport:  when  I  stab- 
marooned  jack  and  maturin  I  was  a  bad  boy's  bogey  but  it  was 
when  I  went  on  to  sankt  piotersbarq  that  they  gave  my  devil  his 
dues:  what  is  seizer  can  hack  in  the  old  wold  a  sawyer  may  hew 
in  the  green:  on  the  island  of  Breasil  the  wildth  of  me  perished 
and  I  took  my  plowshure  sadly,  feeling  pity  for  me  sored:  where 
bold  O'Connee  weds  on  Alta  Mahar,  the  tawny  sprawling  beside 
that  silver  burn,  I  sate  me  and  settled  with  the  little  crither  of  my 
hearth:  her  intellects  I  charmed  with  I  calle  them  utile  thoughts, 
her  turlyhyde  I  plumped  with  potatums  for  amiens  pease  in 
plenty:  my  biblous  beadells  shewed  her  triumphs  of  craftygild 
pageantries,  loftust  Adam,  duffed  our  cousterclother,  Conn  and 
Owel  with  cortoppled  baskib.  Sire  Noeh  Guinnass,  exposant  of 
his  bargeness  and  Lord  Joe  Starr  to  hump  the  body  of  the  camell: 
I  screwed  the  Emperor  down  with  ninepins  gaelic  with  sixpenny- 

549 


hapennies  for  his  hanger  on:  my  worthies  were  hissed  and  trissed 
from  Joshua  to  Godfrey  but  my  processus  prophetarum  they  would 
have  plauded  to  perpetuation.  Morah  book  to  besure,  see  press. 

—  He's  not  all  buum  and  bully. 

—  But  his  members  handly  food  him. 

—  Steving's  grain  for*s  greet  collegtium. 

—  The  S.  S.  Paudraic's  in  the  harbour. 

—  And  after  these  things,  I  fed  her,  my  carlen,  my  barelean  lin- 
steer,  upon  spiceries  for  her  garbage  breath,  italics  of  knobby 
lauch  and  the  rich  morsel  of  the  marrolebone  and  shains  of  gar- 
leeks  and  swinespepper  and  gothakrauts  and  pinkee  dillisks, 
primes  of  meshallehs  and  subleties  in  jellywork,  come  the  feast 
of  Saint  Pancreas,  and  shortcake  nutrients  for  Paas  and  Pingster's 
pudding,  bready  and  nutalled  and  potted  fleshmeats  from  store 
dampkookin,  and  the  drugs  of  Kafa  and  Jelupa  and  shallots  out 
of  Ascalon,  feeding  her  food  convenient  herfor,  to  pass  them  into 
earth:  and  to  my  saffronbreathing  mongoloid,  the  skinsyg,  I  gave 
Biorwik's  powlver  and  Uliv's  oils,  unguents  of  cuticure,  for  the 
swarthy  searchall's  face  on  her,  with  handewers  and  groinscrubbers 
and  a  carrycam  to  teaze  her  tussy  out,  the  brown  but  combly, 
a  mopsa's  broom  to  duist  her  sate,  and  clubmoss  and  wolves- 
foot  for  her  more  moister  wards  (amazing  efficiencies!):  and,  my 
shopsoiled  doveling,  when  weeks  of  kindness  kinly  civicised,  in 
our  saloons  esquirial,  with  fineglas  bowbays,  draped  embrasures 
and  giltedged  librariums,  I  did  devise  my  telltale  sports  at  even- 
bread  to  wring  her  withers  limberly,  wheatears,  slapbang, 
drapier-cut-dean,  bray,  nap,  spinado  and  ranter-go-round:  we 
had  our  lewd  mayers  and  our  lairdie  meiresses  kiotowing  and 
smuling  fullface  on  us  out  of  their  framous  latenesses,  oilclothed 
over  for  cohabitation  and  allpointed  by  Hind:  Tamlane  the  Cus- 
sacke.  Dirk  Wettingstone,  Pieter  Stuyvesant,  Outlawrie  O'Niell, 
Mrs  Currens,  Mrs  Reyson-Figgis,  Mrs  Dattery,  and  Mrs  Pruny- 
Quetch:  in  hym  we  trust,  footwash  and  sects  principles,  apply  to 
overseer,  Amos  five  six:  she  had  dabblingtime  for  exhibiting  her 
grace  of  aljambras  and  duncingk  the  bloodanoobs  in  her  vaux- 
halls  while  I,  dizzed  and  dazed  by  the  lumpty  thumpty  of  our 
