

Vah!  Suvam  Sur!  Scatter  brand  to  the  reneweller  of  the  sky, 
thou  who  agnitest!  Dah!  Arcthuris  comeing!  Be!  Verb  umprin- 
cipiant  through  the  trancitive  spaces !  Kilt  by  kelt  shell  kithagain 
with  kinagain.  We  elect  for  thee,  Tirtangel.  Svadesia  salve!  We 
Durbalanars,  theeadjure.  A  way,  the  Margan,  from  our  astamite, 
through  dimdom  done  till  light  kindling  light  has  led  we  hopas 
but  hunt  me  the  journey  on,  iteritinerant,  the  kal  his  course, 
amid  the  semitary  of  Somnionia.  Even  unto  Heliotropolis,  the 
castellated,  the  enchanting.  Now  if  soomone  felched  a  twoel 
and  soomonelses  warmet  watter  we  could,  while  you  was  saying 
Morkret  Miry  or  Smud,  Brunt  and  Rubbinsen,  make  sunlike 
sylp  om  this  warful  dune's  battam.  Yet  clarify  begins  at.  Whither 
the  spot  for.'*  Whence  the  hour  by.'^  See  but!  Lever  hulme!  Take 
in.  Respassers  should  be  pursaccoutred.  Qui  stabat  Meins  quan- 
tum qui  stabat  Peins.  As  of  yours.  We  annew.  Our  shades  of 
minglings  mengle  them  and  help  help  horizons.  A  flasch  and, 
rasch,  it  shall  come  to  pasch,  as  hearth  by  hearth  leaps  live.  For 
the  tanderest  stock  with  the  rosinost  top  Ahlen  Hill's,  club- 
pubber,  in  general  stores  and.  Atriathroughwards,  Lugh  the 
Brathwacker  will  be  the  listened  after  and  he  larruping  sparks  out 
of  his  teiney  ones.  The  spearspid  of  dawnfire  totouches  ain  the 
tablestoane  ath  the  centre  of  the  great  circle  of  the  macroliths  of 
Helusbelus  in  the  boshiman  brush  on  this  our  peneplain  by  Fan- 
galuvu  Bight  whence  the  horned  cairns  erge,  stanserstanded, 
to  floran  frohn,  idols  of  isthmians.  Overwhere.  Gaunt  grey 
ghostly  gossips  growing  grubber  in  the  glow.  Past  now  pulls. 
Cur  one  beast,  even  Dane  the  Great,  may  treadspath  with 
sniffer  he  snout  impursuant  to  byelegs.  Edar's  chuckal  humuristic. 
But  why  pit  the  cur  afore  the  noxe.'^  Let  shrill  their  duan 
Gallus,  ban,  and  she,  hou  the  Sassqueehenna,  makes  ducks- 
runs  at  crooked.  Once  for  the  chantermale,  twoce  for  the  pother 
and  once  twoce  threece  for  the  waither.  So  an  inedible  yellow- 
meat  turns  out  the  invasable  blackth.  Kwhat  serves  to  rob  with 
Alliman,  saelior,  a  turnkeyed  trot  to  Seapoint,  pierrotettes,  means 
Noel's  Bar  and  Julepunsch,  by  Joge,  if  you've  tippertaps  in  your 
head  or  starting  kursses,  tailour,  you're  silenced  at  Henge  Ceol- 

594 


! 


leges,  Exmooth,  Ostbys  for  ost,  boys,  each  and  one?  Death  banes 
and  the  quick  quoke.  But  Hfe  wends  and  the  dombs  spake! 
Whake?  Hill  of  Hafid,  knock  and  knock,  nachasach,  gives  relief 
to  the  langscape  as  he  strauches  his  lamusong  untoupon  gazelle 
channel  and  the  bride  of  the  Bryne,  shin  high  shake,  is  dotter 
than  evar  for  a  damse  wed  her  farther.  Lambel  on  the  up!  We 
may  plesently  heal  Geoglyphy's  twentynine  ways  to  say  good- 
bett  an  wassing  seoosoon  liv.  With  the  forty  wonks  winking 
please  me  your  much  as  to.  With  her  tup.  It's  a  long  long  ray  to 
Newirgland's  premier.  For  korps,  for  streamfish,  for  confects, 
for  bullyoungs,  for  smearsassage,  for  patates,  for  steaked  pig,  for 
men,  for  limericks,  for  waterfowls,  for  wagsfools,  for  louts,  for 
cold  airs,  for  late  trams,  for  curries,  for  curlews,  for  leekses,  for 
orphalines,  for  tunnygulls,  for  clear  goldways,  for  lungfortes,  for 
moonyhaunts,  for  fairmoneys,  for  coffins,  for  tantrums,  for 
armaurs,  for  waglugs,  for  rogues  comings,  for  sly  goings, 
for  larksmathes,  for  homdsmeethes,  for  quailsmeathes,  kilalooly. 
Tep!  Come  lead,  crom  lech!  Top.  Wisely  for  us  Old  Bruton  has 
withdrawn  his  theory.  You  are  alpsulumply  wroght!  Amsu- 
lummmm.  But  this  is  perporteroguing  youpoorapps.'^  Naman- 
tanai.  Sure  it's  not  revieng  your.'^  Amslu!  Good  all  so.  We  seem 
to  understand  apad  vellumtomes  muniment,  Arans  Duhkha, 
among  hoseshoes,  cheriotiers  and  etceterogenious  bargainbout- 
barrows,  ofver  and  umnder,  since,  evenif  or  although,  in  double 
preposition  as  in  triple  conjunction,  how  the  mudden  research  in 
the  topaia  that  was  Mankaylands  has  gone  to  prove  from  the 
picalava  present  in  the  maramara  melma  that  while  a  successive 
generation  has  been  in  the  deep  deep  deeps  of  Deepereras.  Buried 
hearts.  Rest  here. 

Conk  a  dook  he'll  doo.  Svap. 

So  let  him  slap,  the  sap !  Till  they  take  down  his  shatter  from 
his  shap.  He  canease.  Fill  stap. 

Thus  faraclacks  the  friarbird.  Listening,  Syd ! 

The  child,  a  natural  child,  thenown  by  the  mnames  of,  (aya! 
aya!),  wouldbewas  kidnapped  at  an  age  of  recent  probably, 
possibly  remoter;  or  he  conjured  himself  from  seight  by  slide 

595 


at  hand;  for  which  thetheatron  is  a  lemoronage;  at  milch- 
goat  fairmesse;  in  full  dogdhis;  sod  on  a  fall;  pat;  the  hundering 
blundering  dunderfunder  of  plundersundered  manhood;  behold, 
he  returns;  renascenent;  fincarnate;  still  foretold  around  the  hearth- 
side;  at  matin  a  fact;  hailed  chimers'  ersekind;  foe  purmanant, 
fum  in  his  mow;  awike  in  wave  risurging  into  chrest;  victis  poenis 
hesternis;  fostfath  of  solas;  fram  choicest  of  wiles  with  warmen 
and  sogns  til  Banba,  burial  aranging;  under  articles  thirtynine  of 
the  reconstitution;  by  the  lord*s  order  of  the  canon  consecrand- 
able;  earthlost  that  we  thought  him;  pesternost,  the  noneknown 
worrier;  from  Tumbarumba  mountain;  in  persence  of  whole 
landslots;  forebe  all  the  rassias;  sire  of  leery  subs  of  dub;  the  Dig- 
gins,  Woodenhenge,  as  to  hang  out  at;  with  spawnish  oel  full  his 
angalach;  the  sousenugh;  gnomeosulphidosalamermauderman;  the 
big  brucer,  fert  in  fort;  Gunnar,  of  The  Gunnings,  Gund;  one 
of  the  two  or  three  forefivest  fellows  a  bloke  could  in  holiday 
crowd  encounter;  benedicted  be  the  barrel;  kilderkins,  lids  off;  a 
roache,  an  oxmaster,  a  sort  of  heaps,  a  pamphilius,  a  vintivat 
niviceny,  a  hygiennic  contrivance  socalled  from  the  editor;  the 
thick  of  your  thigh;  you  knox;  quite;  talking  to  the  vicar's  joy 
and  ruth;  the  gren,  woid  and  glue  been  broking  by  the  maybole 
gards;  he;  when  no  crane  in  Elga  is  heard;  upout  to  speak  this 
lay;  without  links,  without  impediments,  with  gygantogyres, 
with  freeflawforms;parasama  to  himself;  atman  as  evars;  whom 
otherwise  becauses;  no  puler  as  of  old  but  as  of  young  a  palatin; 
whitelock  not  lacked  nor  temperasoleon;  though  he  appears  a 
funny  colour;stoatters  some;  but  a  quite  a  big  bug  after  the 
dahlias;  place  inspectorum  sarchent;  also  the  huUow  chyst  ex- 
cavement;  astronomically  fabulafigured;  as  Jambudvispa  Vipra 
foresaw  of  him;  the  last  half  versicle  repurchasing  his  pawned 
word;  sorensplit  and  paddypatched;  and  pfor  to  pfinish  our  pfun 
of  a  pfan  coalding  the  keddle  mickwhite;  sure,  straight,  slim, 
sturdy,  serene,  synthetical,  swift. 

By  the  antar  of  Yasas !  Ruse  made  him  worthily  achieve  in- 
herited wish.  The  drops  upon  that  mantle  rained  never  around 
Fingal.  Goute!  Loughlin's  Salts,  Will,  make  a  newman  if  any- 

596 


worn.  Soe?  La!  Lamfadar's  arm  it  has  cocoincidences.  You  mean 
to  see  we  have  been  hadding  a  sound  night's  sleep?  You  may  so. 
It  is  just,  it  is  just  about  to,  it  is  just  about  to  rolywholyover. 
Svapnasvap.  Of  all  the  stranger  things  that  ever  not  even  in  the 
hundrund  and  badst  pageans  of  unthowsent  and  wonst  nice  or 
in  eddas  and  oddes  bokes  of  tomb,  dyke  and  hollow  to  be  have 
happened !  The  untireties  of  livesliving  being  the  one  substrance 
of  a  streamsbecoming.  Totalled  in  toldteld  and  teldtold  in  tittle- 
tell  tattle.  Why.'^  Because,  graced  be  Gad  and  all  giddy  gadgets, 
in  whose  words  were  the  beginnings,  there  are  two  signs  to  turn 
to,  the  yest  and  the  ist,  the  wright  side  and  the  wronged  side, 
feeling  aslip  and  wauking  up,  so  an,  so  farth.  Why.'^  On  the  sourd- 
site  we  have  the  Moskiosk  Djinpalast  with  its  twin  adjacencies, 
the  bathouse  and  the  bazaar,  allahallahallah,  and  on  the  sponthe- 
site  it  is  the  alcovan  and  the  rosegarden,  boony  noughty,  all  pura- 
puthry.  Why?  One's  apurr  apuss  a  story  about  brid  and  break- 
fedes  and  parricombating  and  coushcouch  but  others  is  of  tholes 
and  oubworn  buyings,  dolings  and  chafferings  in  heat,  contest 
and  enmity.  Why?  Every  talk  has  his  stay,  vidnis  Shavarsanjivana, 
and  all-a-dreams  perhapsing  under  lucksloop  at  last  are  through. 
Why?  It  is  a  sot  of  a  swigswag,  systomy  dystomy,  which  evera- 
body  you  ever  anywhere  at  all  doze.  Why?  Such  me. 
And  howpsadrowsay. 

Lok!  A  shaft  of  shivery  in  the  act,  anilancinant.  Cold's  sleuth! 
Vayuns !  Where  did  thots  come  from?  It  is  infinitesimally  fevers, 
resty  fever,  risy  fever,  a  coranto  of  aria,  sleeper  awakening,  in 
the  smalls  of  one's  back  presentiment,  gip,  and  again,  geip,  a 
flash  from  a  future  of  maybe  mahamayability  through  the  windr 
of  a  wondr  in  a  wildr  is  a  weltr  as  a  wirbl  of  a  warbl  is  a  world. 

Tom. 

It  is  perfect  degrees  excelsius.  A  jaladaew  still  stilleth.  Cloud 
lay  but  mackrel  are.  Anemone  activescent,  the  torporature  is  re- 
turning to  mornal.  Humid  nature  is  feeling  itself  freely  at  ease 
.with  the  all  fresco.  The  vervain  is  to  herald  as  the  grass  admini- 
sters. They  say,  they  say  in  effect,  they  really  say.  You  have  eaden 
fruit.  Say  whuit.  You  have  snakked  mid  a  fish.  Telle  whish. 

597 


Every  those  personal  place  objects  if  nonthings  where  soevers 
and  they  just  done  been  doing  being  in  a  dromo  of  todos  with- 
outen  a  bound  to  be  your  trowers.  Forswundled.  You  hald  him 
by  the  tap  of  the  tang.  Not  a  salutary  sellable  sound  is  since.  In- 
steed  for  asteer,  adrift  with  adraft.  Nuctumbulumbumus  wander- 
wards  the  Nil.  Victorias  neanzas.  Alberths  neantas.  It  was  a  long, 
very  long,  a  dark,  very  dark,  an  allburt  unend,  scarce  endurable, 
and  we  could  add  mostly  quite  various  and  somenwhat  stumble- 
tumbling  night.  Endee  he  sendee.  Diu !  The  has  goning  at  gone, 
the  is  coming  to  come.  Greets  to  ghastern,  hie  to  morgning.  Dor- 
midy,  destady.  Doom  is  the  faste.  Well  down,  good  other!  Now 
day,  slow  day,  from  delicate  to  divine,  divases.  Padma,  brighter 
and  sweetster,  this  flower  that  bells,  it  is  our  hour  or  risings. 
Tickle,  tickle.  Lotus  spray.  Till  herenext.  Adya. 

Take  thanks,  thankstum,  thamas.  In  that  earopean  end  meets 
Ind. 

There  is  something  supernoctural  about  whatever  you  called 
him  it.  Panpan  and  vinvin  are  not  alonety  vanvan  and  pinpin  in 
your  Tamal  without  tares  but  simplysoley  they  are  they.  This- 
utter  followis  that  odder  fellow.  Himkim  kimkim.  Old  yeaster- 
loaves  may  be  a  stale  as  a  stub  and  the  pitcher  go  to  aftoms  on  the 
wall.  Mildew,  murk,  leak  and  yarn  now  want  the  bad  that  they 
lied  on.  And  your  last  words  todate  in  camparative  accousto- 
mology  are  going  to  tell  stretch  of  a  fancy  through  strength  to- 
wards joyance,  adyatants,  where  he  gets  up.  Allay  for  allay,  a 
threat  for  a  throat. 

Tim! 

To  them  in  Ysat  Loka.  Hearing.  The  urb  it^orbs.  Then's  now 
with  now's  then  in  tense  continuant.  Heard.  Who  having  has 
he  shall  have  had.  Hear!  Upon  the  thuds  trokes  truck,  chim, 
it  will  be  exactlyso  fewer  hours  by  so  many  minutes  of  the 
ope  of  the  diurn  of  the  sennight  of  the  maaned  of  the  yere  of 
the  age  of  the  madamanvantora  of  Grossguy  and  Littleylady, 
our  hugibus  hugibum  and  our  weewee  mother,  actaman  house- 
truewith,  and  their  childer  and  their  napirs  and  their  napirs' 
childers  napirs  and  their  chattels  and  their  servance  and  their 

598 


cognance  and  their  ilks  and  their  orts  and  their  everythings  that 
is  be  will  was  theirs. 

Much  obliged.  Time-o'-Thay !  But  wherth,  O  clerk.'^ 
Whithr  a  clonk.^  Vartman!  See  you  not  soo  the  pfath  they 
pfunded,  oura  vatars  that  arred  in  Himmal,  harruad  bathar  na- 
mas,  the  gow,  the  stiar,  the  tigara,  the  liofant,  when  even  thurst 
was  athar  vetals,  mid  trefoils  slipped  the  sable  rampant,  hoof, 
hoof,  hoof,  hoof,  padapodopudupedding  on  fattafottafutt.  Ere 
we  are!  Signifying,  if  tungs  may  tolkan,  that,  primeval  condi- 
tions having  gradually  receded  but  nevertheless  the  emplacement 
of  solid  and  fluid  having  to  a  great  extent  persisted  through 
intermittences  of  sullemn  fulminance,  sollemn  nuptialism,  sallemn 
sepulture  and  providential  divining,  making  possible  and  even 
inevitable,  after  his  a  time  has  a  tense  haves  and  havenots  hesitency, 
at  the  place  and  period  under  consideration  a  socially  organic 
entity  of  a  millenary  military  maritory  monetary  morphological 
circumformation  in  a  more  or  less  settled  state  of  equonomic 
ecolube  equalobe  equilab  equilibbrium.  Gam  on,  Gearge !  Nomo- 
morphemy  for  me!  Lessnatbe  angardsmanlake !  You  jast  gat  a 
tache  of  army  on  the  stumuk.  To  the  Angar  at  Anker.  Aecquo- 
tincts.  Seeworthy.  Lots  thankyouful,  polite  pointsins!  There's 
a  tavam  in  the  tarn. 

Tip.  Take  Tamotimo's  topical.  Tip.  Browne  yet  Noland.  Tip. 
Advert. 

Where.  Cumulonubulocirrhonimbant  heaven  electing,  the  dart 
of  desire  has  gored  the  heart  of  secret  waters  and  the  poplarest 
wood  in  the  entire  district  is  being  grown  at  present,  eminently 
adapted  for  the  requirements  of  pacnincstricken  humanity  and, 
between  all  the  goings  up  and  the  whole  of  the  comings  down  and 
the  fog  of  the  cloud  in  which  we  toil  and  the  cloud  of  the  fog 
under  which  we  labour,  bomb  the  thing's  to  be  domb  about  it  so 
that,  beyond  indicating  the  locality,  it  is  felt  that  one  cannot  with 
advantage  add  a  very  great  deal  to  the  aforegoing  by  what,  such  as 
it  is  to  be,  follows,  just  mentioning  however  that  the  old  man  of 
the  sea  and  the  old  woman  in  the  sky  if  they  don't  say  nothings 
about  it  they  don't  tell  us  lie,  the  gist  of  the  pantomime,  from 

599 


cannibal  king  to  the  property  horse,  being,  slumply  and  slopely, 
to  remind  us  how,  in  this  drury  world  of  ours.  Father  Times  and 
Mother  Spacies  boil  their  kettle  with  their  crutch.  Which  every 
lad  and  lass  in  the  lane  knows.  Hence. 

Polycarp  pool,  the  pool  of  Innalavia,  Saras  the  saft  as,  of 
meadewy  marge,  atween  Deltas  Piscium  and  Sagittariastrion, 
whereinn  once  we  lave  'tis  alve  and  vale,  minnyhahing  here  from 
hiarwather,  a  poddlebridges  in  a  passabed,  the  river  of  lives,  the 
regenerations  of  the  incarnations  of  the  emanations  of  the  appa- 
rentations  of  Funn  and  Nin  in  Cleethabala,  the  kongdomain  of 
the  Alieni,  an  accorsaired  race,  infester  of  Libnud  Ocean,  Moyla- 
more,  let  it  be!  Where  Allbroggt  Neandser  tracking  Viggynette 
Neeinsee  gladsighted  her  Linfian  Fall  and  a  teamdiggingharrow 
turned  the  first  sod.  Sluce!  Caughterect!  Goodspeed  the  blow! 
(Incidentally  'tis  believed  that  his  harpened  before  Gage's  Fane 
for  it  has  to  be  over  this  booty  spotch,  though  some  hours  to 
the  wester,  that  ex-Colonel  House's  preterpost  heiress  is  to  re- 
turn unto  the  outstretcheds  of  Dweyr  O'Michael's  loinsprung 
the  blunterbusted  pikehead  which  his  had  hewn  in  hers,  pro- 
longed laughter  words).  There  an  alomdree  begins  to  green, 
screen  seen  for  loveseat,  as  we  know  that  should  she,  for  by 
essentience  his  law,  so  it  make  all.  It  is  scainted  to  Vitalba.  And 
her  little  white  bloomkins,  twittersky  trimmed,  are  hobdoblins' 
hanky panks.  Saxenslyke  our  anscessers  thought  so  darely  on 
now  they're  going  soever  to  Anglesen,  free  of  juties,  dyrt  chapes. 
There  too  a  slab  slobs,  immermemorial,  the  only  in  all  swamp. 
But  so  bare,  so  boulder,  brag  sagging  such  a  brr  bll  bmm  show 
that,  of  Barindens,  the  white  alfred,  it  owed  to  have  at  leased 
some  butchup's  upperon.  Homos  Circas  Elochlannensisl  His 
showplace  at  Leeambye.  Old  Wommany  Wyes.  Pfif !  But,  while 
gleam  with  gloom  swan  here  and  there,  this  shame  rock  and  that 
whispy  planter  tell  Paudheen  Steel-the-Poghue  and  his  perty 
Molly  Vardant,  in  goodbroomirish,  arrah,  this  place  is  a  proper 
and  his  feist  a  ferial  for  curdnal  communial,  so  be  who  would 
celibrate  the  holy  mystery  upon  or  that  the  pirigrim  from  Mainy- 
lands  beatend,  the  calmleaved  hutcaged  by  that  look  whose  glaum 

600 


I 


I 


is  sure  he  means  bisnisgels  to  empalmover.  A  naked  yogpriest, 
clothed  of  sundust,  his  oakey  doaked  with  frondest  leoves,  offrand 
to  the  ewon  of  her  owen.  Tasyam  kuru  salilakriyamu !  Pfaf ! 

Bring  about  it  to  be  brought  about  and  it  will  be,  loke,  our  lake 
lemanted,  that  greyt  lack,  the  citye  of  Is  is  issuant  (atlanst!),  urban 
and  orbal,  through  seep  froms  umber  under  wasseres  of  Erie. 

Lough ! 

Hwo!  Hwy,  dairmaidens?  Asthoreths,  assay!  Earthsigh  to  is 
heavened. 

Hillsengals,  the  daughters  of  the  cliffs,  responsen.  Longsome 
the  samphire  coast.  From  thee  to  thee,  thoo  art  it  thoo,  that 
thouest  there.  The  like  the  near,  the  liker  nearer.  O  sosay!  A 
family,  a  band,  a  school,  a  clanagirls.  Fiftines  andbut  fortines  by 
novanas  andor  vantads  by  octettes  ayand  decadendecads  by  a 
lunary  with  last  a  lone.  Whose  every  has  herdifferent  from  the 
similies  with  her  site.  Sicut  campanulae  petalliferentes  they  coroll 
in  caroll  round  Botany  Bay.  A  dweam  of  dose  innocent  dirly 
dirls.  Keavn!  Keavn!  And  they  all  setton  voicies  about  singsing 
music  was  Keavn!  He.  Only  he.  Ittle  he.  Ah!  The  whole 
clangalied.  Oh! 

S.  Wilhelmina's,  S.  Gardenia's,  S.  Phibia's,  S.  Veslandrua's, 
S.  Clarinda's,  S.  Immecula's,  S.  Dolores  Delphin's,  S.  Perlan- 
throa's,  S.  Errands  Gay's,  S.  Eddaminiva's,  S.  Rhodamena's,  S. 
Ruadagara's,  S.  Drimicumtra's,  S.  Una  Vestity's,  S.  Mintargisia's, 
S.  Misha-La-Valse's,  S.  Churstry's,  S.  Clouonaskieym's,  S.  Bella- 
vistura's,  S.  Santamonta's,  S.  Ringsingsund's,  S.  Heddadin 
Drade's,  S.  Glacianivia's,  S.  Waidafrira's,  S.  Thomassabbess's 
and  (trema!  unloud!!  pepet!!!)  S.  Loellisotoelles ! 

Prayfulness !  Prayfulness ! 

Euh!  Thaet  is  seu  whaet  shaell  one  naeme  it! 

The  meidinogues  have  tingued  togethering.  Ascend  out  of 
your  bed,  cavern  of  a  trunk,  and  shrine!  Kathlins  is  kitchin. 
Soros  cast,  ma  brone!  You  must  exterra  acquarate  to  interirigate 
all  the  arkypelicans.  The  austrologer  Wallaby  by  Tolan,  who 
farshook  our  showrs  from  Newer  Aland,  has  signed  the  you  and 
the  now  our  mandate.  Milenesia  waits.  Be  smark. 

6oi 


One  seekings.  Not  the  lithe  slender,  not  the  broad  roundish 
near  the  lithe  slender,  not  the  fairsized  fuUfeatured  to  the  leeward 
of  the  broad  roundish  but,  indeed  and  inneed,  the  curling,  perfect- 
portioned,  flowerfleckled,  shapely  highhued,  delicate  features 
swaying  to  the  windward  of  the  fairsized  fuUfeatured. 

Was  that  in  the  air  about  when  something  is  to  be  said  for  it  or 
is  it  someone  imparticular  who  will  somewherise  for  the  whole 
anyhow? 

What  does  Coemghen?  Tell  his  hidings  clearly!  A  woodtoo- 
gooder.  Is  his  moraltack  still  his  best  of  weapons?  How  about  a 
little  more  goaling  goold?  Rowlin's  tun  he  gadder  no  must.  It  is 
the  voice  of  Roga.  His  face  is  the  face  of  a  son.  Be  thine  the  silent 
hall,  O  Jarama !  A  virgin,  the  one,  shall  mourn  thee.  Roga's  stream 
is  solence.  But  Croona  is  in  adestance.  The  ass  of  the  O'Dwyer 
of  Greyglens  is  abrowtobayse  afeald  in  his  terroirs  of  the  Potter- 
ton's  forecoroners,  the  reeks  around  the  burleyhearthed.  When 
visited  by  an  indepondant  reporter,  "Mike"  Portlund,  to  burrow 
burning  the  latterman's  Resterant  so  is  called  the  gortan  in  ques- 
ture  he  mikes  the  fallowing  for  the  Durban  Gazette,  firstcoming 
issue.  From  a  collispendent.  Any  were.  Deemsday.  Bosse  of  Upper 
and  Lower  Byggotstrade,  Ciwareke,  may  he  live  for  river!  The 
Games  funeral  at  Valleytemple.  Satumights  pomps,  exhabiting 
that  corricatore  of  a  harss,  revealled  by  Oscur  Camerad.  The  last 
of  Dutch  Schulds,perhumps.  Pipe  in  Dream  Cluse.  Uncovers  Pub 
History.  The  Outrage,  at  Length.  Affected  Mob  Follows  in  Reli- 
gious Sullivence.  Rinvention  of  vestiges  by  which  they  drugged 
the  buddhy.  Moviefigure  on  in  scenic  section.  By  Patathicus.  And 
there,  from  out  of  the  scuity,  misty  Londan,  along  the  canavan 
route,  that  is  with  the  years  gone,  mild  beam  of  the  wave  his 
polar  bearing,  steerner  among  stars,  trust  touthena  and  you 
tread  true  turf,  comes  the  sorter,  Mr  Hurr  Hansen,  talking  allthe- 
ways  in  himself  of  his  hopes  to  fall  in  among  a  merryfoule 
of  maidens  happynghome  from  the  dance,  his  knyckle  allaready 
in  his  knackskey  fob,  a  passable  compatriate  proparly  of  the 
Grimstad  galleon,  old  pairs  frieze,  feed  up  to  the  noxer  with 
their  geese  and  peeas  and  oats  upon  a  trencher  and  the  toyms 

602 


I 


he'd  lust  in  Wooming  but  with  that  smeoil  like  a  grace  of  backon- 
ing  over  his  egglips  of  the  sunsoonshine.  Here's  heering  you  in 
a  guessmasque,  latterman!  And  such  an  improofment !  As  royt 
as  the  mail  and  as  fat  as  a  fuddle!  Schoen!  Shoan!  Shoon  the 
Puzt!  A  penny  for  your  thought  abouts!  Tay,  tibby,  tanny, 
tummy,  tasty,  tosty,  tay.  Batch  is  for  Baker  who  baxters  our 
bread.  O,  what  an  ovenly  odour!  Butter  butter!  Bring  us  this 
days  our  maily  bag!  But  receive  me,  my  frensheets,  from  the 
emerald  dark  winterlong!  For  diss  is  the  doss  for  Eilder  Downes 
and  dass  is  it  duss,  as  singen  sengers,  what  the  hardworking 
straightwalking  stoutstamping  securelysealing  officials  who  trow 
to  form  our  G.M.P.'s  pass  muster  generally  shay  for  shee  and 
sloo  for  slee  when  butting  their  headd  to  the  pillow  for  a  night- 
shared  nakeshift  with  the  alter  girl  they  tuck  in  for  sweepsake. 
Dutiful  wealker  for  his  hydes  of  march.  Haves  you  the  time. 
Hans  ahike?  Heard  you  the  crime,  senny  boy.'^  The  man  was 
giddy  on  letties  on  the  dewry  of  the  duary,  be  pursueded, 
whethered  with  entrenous,  midgreys,  dagos,  teatimes,  shadows, 
nocturnes  or  samoans,  if  wellstocked  fillerouters  plushfeverfraus 
with  dopy  chonks,  and  this,  that  and  the  other  pigskin  or  muffle 
kinkles,  taking  a  pipe  course  or  doing  an  anguish,  seen  to  his 
fleece  in  after  his  fouU,  when  Dr  Chart  of  Greet  Chorsles  street 
he  changed  his  backbone  at  a  citting.  He  had  not  the  declaina- 
tion,  as  what  with  the  foos  as  whet  with  the  fays,  but  so  far  as 
hanging  a  goobes  on  the  precedings,  wherethen  the  lag  allows,  it 
mights  be  anything  after  darks.  Which  the  deers  alones  they  sees 
and  the  darkies  they  is  snuffing  of  the  wind  up.  Debbling. 
Greanteavvents !  Hyacinssies  with  heliotrollops !  Not  once 
fullvixen  freakings  and  but  dubbledecoys !  It  is  a  lable  iction  on 
the  porte  of  the  cuthulic  church  and  summum  most  atole  for  it. 
Where  is  that  blinketey  blanketer,  that  quound  of  a  pealer,  the 
sunt  of  a  hunt  whant  foxes  good  men!  Where  or  he,  our  loved 
among  many.'^ 

But  what  does  Coemghem,  the  fostard.'^  Tyro  a  tora.  The 
novened  iconostase  of  his  blueygreyned  vitroils  but  begins 
in  feint  to  light  his  legend.  Let  Phosphoron  proclaim!  Peechy 

603 


peechy.  Say  he  that  saw  him  that  saw!  Man  shall  sharp  run 
do  a  get  him.  Ask  no  more,  Jerry  mine,  Roga's  voice!  No 
pice  soorkabatcha.  The  bog  which  puckerooed  the  posy.  The 
vinebranch  of  Heremonheber  on  Bregia's  plane  where  Teffia  lies 
is  leaved  invert  and  fructed  proper  but  the  cublic  hatches  endnot 
open  yet  for  hourly  rincers'  mess.  Read  Higgins,  Cairns  and  Egen. 
Malthus  is  yet  lukked  in  close.  Withun.  How  swathed  there- 
answer  alcove  makes  theirinn!  Besoakers  loiter  on.  And  primi- 
libatory  solicates  of  limon  sodias  will  be  absorbable.  It  is 
not  even  yet  the  engine  of  the  load  with  haled  morries  full  of 
crates,  you  mattinmummur,  for  dombell  dumbs.'^  Sure  and  'tis 
not  then.  The  greek  Sideral  Reulthway,  as  it  havvents,  will  soon 
be  starting  a  smooth  with  its  first  single  hastencraft.  Danny  buz- 
zers instead  of  the  vialact  coloured  milk  train  on  the  fartykket 
plan  run  with  its  endless  gallaxion  of  rotatorattlers  and  the  smool- 
troon  our  elderens  rememberem  as  the  scream  of  the  service, 
Strubry  Bess.  Also  the  waggonwobblers  are  still  yet  everdue  to 
precipitate  after  night's  combustion.  Aspect,  Shamus  Rogua  or! 
Taceate  and!  Hagiographice  canat  Ecclesia.  Which  aubrey  our 
first  shall  show.  Inattendance  who  is  who  is  will  play  that's  what's 
that  to  what's  that,  what. 

Oyes!  Oyeses!  Oyesesyeses!  The  primace  of  the  Gaulls,  pro- 
tonotorious,  I  yam  as  I  yam,  mitrogenerand  in  the  free  state  on 
the  air,  is  now  aboil  to  blow  a  Gael  warning.  Inoperation  Eyr- 
lands  Eyot,  Meganesia,  Habitant  and  the  onebut  thousand  insels, 
Western  and  Osthern  Approaches. 

Of  Kevin,  of  increate  God  the  servant,  of  the  Lord  Creator  a 
filial  fearer,  who,  given  to  the  growing  grass,  took  to  the  tall  tim- 
ber, slippery  dick  the  springy  heeler,  as  we  have  seen,  so  we 
have  heard,  what  we  have  received,  that  we  have  transmitted, 
thus  we  shall  hope,  this  we  shall  pray  till,  in  the  search  for 
love  of  knowledge  through  the  comprehension  of  the  unity  in 
altruism  through  stupefaction,  it  may  again  how  it  may  again, 
shearing  aside  the  four  wethers  and  passing  over  the  dainty  daily 
dairy  and  dropping  by  the  way  the  lapful  of  live  coals  and 
smoothing  out  Nelly  Nettle  and  her  lad  of  mettle,  full  of  stmgs, 

604 


T 


fond  of  stones,  friend  of  gnewgnawns  bones  and  leaving  all  the 
messy  messy  to  look  after  our  douche  douche,  the  miracles, 
death  and  life  are  these. 

Yad.  Procreated  on  the  ultimate  ysland  of  Yreland  in  the  en- 
cyclical yrish  archipelago,  come  their  feast  of  precreated  holy 
whiteclad  angels,  whomamong  the  christener  of  his,  voluntarily 
poor  Kevin,  having  been  graunted  the  praviloge  of  a  priest's 
postcreated  portable  altare  cum  halneo^  when  espousing  the  one 
true  cross,  invented  and  exalted,  in  celibate  matrimony  at  matin 
chime  arose  and  westfrom  went  and  came  in  alb  of  cloth  of  gold 
to  our  own  midmost  Glendalough-le-vert  by  archangelical  guid- 
ance where  amiddle  of  meeting  waters  of  river  Yssia  and  Essia 
river  on  this  one  of  cithers  lone  navigable  lake  piously  Kevin, 
lawding  the  triune  trishagion,  amidships  of  his  conducible  altar 
super  bath,  rafted  centripetally,  diaconal  servent  of  orders  hiber- 
nian,  midway  across  the  subject  lake  surface  to  its  supreem  epi- 
centric  lake  Ysle,  whereof  its  lake  is  the  ventrifugal  principality, 
whereon  by  prime,  powerful  in  knowledge,  Kevin  came  to  where 
its  centre  is  among  the  circumfluent  watercourses  of  Yshgafiena 
and  Yshgafiuna,  an  enysled  lakelet  yslanding  a  lacustrine  yslet, 
whereupon  with  beached  raft  subdiaconal  bath  propter  altar, 
with  oil  extremely  anointed,  accompanied  by  prayer,  holy  Kevin 
bided  till  the  third  morn  hour  but  to  build  a  rubric  penitential 
honeybeehivehut  in  whose  enclosure  to  live  in  fortitude,  acolyte 
of  cardinal  virtues,  whereof  the  arenary  floor,  most  holy  Kevin 
excavated  as  deep  as  to  the  depth  of  a  seventh  part  of  one  full 
fathom,  which  excavated,  venerable  Kevin,  anchorite,  taking 
counsel,  proceded  towards  the  lakeside  of  the  ysletshore  whereat 
seven  several  times  he,  eastward  genuflecting,  in  entire  ubidience 
at  sextnoon  collected  gregorian  water  sevenfold  and  with  am- 
brosian  eucharistic  joy  of  heart  as  many  times  receded,  carrying 
that  privileged  altar  unacumque  bath,  which  severally  seven  times 
into  the  cavity  excavated,  a  lector  of  water  levels,  most  venerable 
Kevin,  then  effused  thereby  letting  there  be  water  where  was  there- 
tofore dry  land,  by  him  so  concreated,  who  now,  confirmed  a  strong 
and  perfect  christian,  blessed  Kevin,  exorcised  his  holy  sister 

605 


water,  perpetually  chaste,  so  that,  well  understanding,  she  should 
fill  to  midheight  his  tubbathaltar,  which  hanbathtub,  most  blessed 
Kevin,  ninthly  enthroned,  in  the  concentric  centre  of  the  trans- 
lated water,  whereamid,  when  violet  vesper  vailed.  Saint  Kevin, 
Hydrophilos,  having  girded  his  sable  cappa  magna  as  high  as  to 
his  cherubical  loins,  at  solemn  compline  sat  in  his  sate  of  wis- 
dom, that  handbathtub,  where verafter,  recreated  doctor  insularis 
of  the  universal  church,  keeper  of  the  door  of  meditation,  memory 
extempore  proposing  and  intellect  formally  considering,  recluse, 
he  meditated  continuously  with  seraphic  ardour  the  primal  sacra- 
ment of  baptism  or  the  regeneration  of  all  man  by  affusion  of 
water.  Yee. 

Bisships,  bevel  to  rock's  rite  1  Sarver  buoy,  extinguish !  Nuota- 
bene.  The  rare  view  from  the  three  Benns  under  the  bald  heaven 
is  on  the  other  end,  askan  your  blixom  on  dimmen  and  bias  tun, 
something  to  right  hume  about.  They  were  erected  in  a  purvious 
century,  as  a  hen  fine  coops  and,  if  you  know  your  Bristol  and 
have  trudged  the  trolly  ways  and  elventums  of  that  old  cobbold 
city,  you  will  sortofficially  scribble  a  mental  Peny-Knox-Gore. 
Whether  they  were  franklings  by  name  also  has  not  been  fully 
probed.  Their  design  is  a  whosold  word  and  the  charming  de- 
tails of  light  in  dark  are  freshed  from  the  feminiairity  which 
breathes  content.  0  ferax  cupla\  Ah,  fairypair!  The  first  exploder 
to  make  his  ablations  in  these  parks  was  indeed  that  lucky  mortal 
which  the  monster  trial  showed  on  its  first  day  out.  What  will 
not  arky  paper,  anticidingly  inked  with  penmark,  push,  per  sample 
prof,  kuvertly  falted,  when  style,  stink  and  stigmataphoron  are 
of  one  sum  in  the  same  person.'^  He  comes  out  of  the  soil  very 
well  after  all  just  where  Old  Toffler  is  to  come  shuffling  along- 
soons  Panniquanne  starts  showing  of  her  peequuliar  talonts. 
Awaywrong  wandler  surking  to  a  rightrare  rute  for  his  plain 
utterrock  sukes,  appelled  to  by  her  fancy  claddaghs.  You  plied 
that  pokar,  gamesy,  swell  as  aye  did,  while  there  were  flickars 
to  the  flores.  He  may  be  humpy,  nay,  he  may  be  dumpy  but  there 
is  always  something  racey  about,  say,  a  sailor  on  a  horse.  As  soon 
as  we  sale  him  geen  we  gates  a  sprise !  He  brings  up  tofatufa  and 

606 


that  is  how  we  get  to  Missas  in  Massas.  The  old  Marino  tale.  We 
veriters  verity  notefew  demmed  lustres  priorly  magistrite  maxi- 
mollient  in  ludubility  learned.  Facst.  Teak  off  that  wise  head! 
Great  sinner,  good  sonner,  is  in  effect  the  motto  of  the  Mac- 
Cowell  family.  The  gloved  fist  (skrimmhandsker)  was  intraduced 
into  their  socerdatal  tree  before  the  fourth  of  the  twelfth  and  it 
is  even  a  little  odd  all  four  horolodgeries  still  gonging  restage 
Jakob  van  der  Bethel,  smolking  behing  his  pipe,  with  Essav  of 
Messagepostumia,  lentling  out  his  borrowed  chafingdish,  before 
cymbaloosing  the  apostles  at  every  hours  of  changeover.  The 
first  and  last  rittlerattle  of  the  anniverse;  when  is  a  nam  nought  a 
nam  whenas  it  is  a.  Watch  1  Heroes'  Highway  where  our  fleshers 
leave  their  bonings  and  every  bob  and  joan  to  fill  the  bumper  fair. 
It  is  their  segnall  for  old  Champelysied  to  seek  the  shades  of  his 
retirement  and  for  young  Chappielassies  to  tear  a  round  and  tease 
their  partners  lovesoftfun  at  Finnegan's  Wake. 

And  it's  high  tigh  tigh.  Titley  hi  ti  ti.  That  my  dig  pressed  in 
your  dag  si.  Gnug  of  old  Gnig.  Ni,  gnid  mig  brawly!  I  bag  your 
burden.  Mees  is  thees  knees.  Thi  is  Mi.  We  have  caught  one- 
selves,  Sveasmeas,  in  somes  incontigruity  coumplegs  of  heopon- 
hurrish  marrage  from  whose  I  most  sublumbunate.  A  polog,  my 
engl  1  Excutes.  Om  still  so  sovvy.  Whyle  om  till  ti  ti. 

Ha! 

Dayagreening  gains  in  schlimninging.  A  summerwint  spring- 
falls,  abated.  Hail,  regn  of  durknass,  snowly  receassing,  thund 
lightening  thund,  into  the  dimbelowstard  departamenty  whither- 
out,  soon  hist,  soon  mist,  to  the  hothehill  from  the  hollow, 
Solsking  the  Frist  (attempted  by  the  admirable  Captive  Bunting 
and  Loftonant-Cornel  Blaire)  will  processingly  show  up  above 
