mation,  accorded,  throughout  the  eye  of  a  noodle,  with  an  ear- 
sighted  view  of  old  hopeinhaven  with  all  the  ingredient  and 
egregiunt  whights  and  ways  to  which  in  the  curse  of  his  persis- 
tence the  course  of  his  tory  will  had  been  having  recourses,  the 
reverberration  of  knotcracking  awes,  the  reconjungation  of 
nodebinding  ayes,  the  redissolusingness  of  mindmouldered  ease 
and  the  thereby  hang  of  the  Hoel  of  it,  could  such  a  none,  whiles 
even  led  comesilencers  to  comeliewithhers  and  till  intempes- 
tuous  Nox  should  catch  the  gallicry  and  spot  lucan's  dawn,  by- 
hold  at  ones  what  is  main  and  why  tis  twain,  how  one  once 
meet  melts  in  tother  wants  poignings,  the  sap  rising,  the  foles 
falling,  the  nimb  now  nihilant  round  the  girlyhead  so  becoming, 
the  wrestless  in  the  womb,  all  the  rivals  to  allsea,  shakeagain,  O 
disaster!  shakealose.  Ah  how  starring!  but  Heng's  got  a  bit 
of  Horsa's  nose  and  Jeff's  got  the  signs  of  Ham  round  his 
mouth  and  the  beau  that  spun  beautiful  pales  as  it  palls,  what 
roserude  and  oragious  grows  gelb  and  greem,  blue  out  the  ind  of 
it!  Violet's  dyed!  then  what  would  that  fargazer  seem  to  seemself 
to  seem  seeming  of,  dimm  it  all? 

Answer:  A  coUideorscape ! 

10.  What  bitter's  love  but  yurning,  what'  sour  lovemutch  but 
a  bref  burning  till  shee  that  drawes  dothe  smoake  retourne? 

Answer:  I  know,  pepette,  of  course,  dear,  but  listen,  precious! 
Thanks,  pette,  those  are  lovely,  pitounette,  delicious!  But  mind 
the  wind,  sweet!  What  exquisite  hands  you  have,  you  angiol,  if 
you  didn't  gnaw  your  nails,  isn't  it  a  wonder  you're  not  achamed 
of  me^  you  pig,  you  perfect  Httle  pigaleen!  I'll  nudge  you  in  a 
minute!  I  bet  you  use  her  best  Perisian  smear  off  her  vanity  table 

143 


to  make  them  look  so  rosetop  glowstop  nostop.  I  know  her. 
Slight  me,  would  she?  For  every  got  I  care !  Three  creamings  a 
day,  the  first  during  her  shower  and  wipe  off  with  tissue.  Then 
after  cleanup  and  of  course  before  retiring.  Berne  shawl,  when  I 
think  of  that  espos  of  a  Clancarbry,  the  foodbrawler,  of  the  socia- 
tionist  party  with  hiss  blackleaded  chest,  hello,  Prendregast! 
that  you,  Innkipper,  and  all  his  fourteen  other  fullback  maulers 
or  hurling  stars  or  whatever  the  dagos  they  are,  baiting  at  my 
Lord  Ornery's,  just  becups  they  won  the  egg  and  spoon  there 
so  ovally  provencial  at  Balldole.  My  Eilish  assent  he  seed  makes 
his  admiracion.  He  is  seeking  an  opening  and  means  to  be  first 
with  me  as  his  belle  alliance.  Andoo  musnoo  play  zeloso!  Soso 
do  todas.  Such  is  Spanish.  Stoop  alittle  closer,  fealse!  Delight- 
some simply!  Like  Jolio  and  Romeune.  I  haven't  fell  so  turkish 
for  ages  and  ages!  Mine's  me  of  squisious,  the  chocolate  with 
a  soul.  Extraordinary!  Why,  what  are  they  all,  the  mucky  lot 
of  them  only.^  Sht!  I  wouldn't  pay  three  hairpins  for  them.  Peppt! 
That's  rights,  hold  it  steady!  Leg  me  pull.  Pu!  Come  big  to  Iran. 
Poo!  What  are  you  nudging  for.^  No,  I  just  thought  you  were. 
Listen,  loviest!  Of  course  it  was  too  kind  of  you,  miser,  to  re- 
member my  sighs  in  shockings,  my  often  expressed  wish  when 
you  were  wandering  about  my  trousseaurs  and  before  I  forget  it 
don't  forget,  in  your  extensions  to  my  personality,  when  knotting 
my  remembrancetie,  shoeweek  will  be  trotting  back  with  red 
heels  at  the  end  of  the  moon  but  look  what  the  fool  bought 
cabbage  head  and,  as  I  shall  answer  to  gracious  heaven,  I'll 
always  in  always  remind  of  snappy  new  girters,  me  being  always 
the  one  for  charms  with  my  very  best  in  proud  and  gloving 
even  if  he  was  to  be  vermillion  miles  my  youth  to  live  on, 
the  rubberend  Mr  Polkingtone,  the  quonian  fleshmonger  who 
Mother  Browne  solicited  me  for  unlawful  converse  with,  with 
her  mug  of  October  (a  pots  on  it!),  creaking  around  on  his  old 
shanksaxle  like  a  crosty  old  cornquake.  Airman,  waterwag,  terrier, 
blazer!  I'm  fine,  thanks  ever!  Ha!  O  mind  you  poo  tickly.  Sail  I 
puhim  in  momou.  Mummum.  Funny  spot  to  have  a  fingey!  I'm 
terribly  sorry,  I  swear  to  you  I  am !  May  you  never  see  me  in  my 

144 


birthday  pelts  seenso  tutu  and  that  her  blanches  mainges  may  rot 
leprous  off  her  whatever  winking  maggis  Fll  bet  by  your  cut 
you  go  fleurting  after  with  all  the  glass  on  her  and  the  jumps 
in  her  stomewhere!  Haha!  I  suspected  she  was!  Sink  her!  May 
they  fire  her  for  a  barren  ewe!  So  she  says:  Tay  for  thee?  Well,  I 
saith:  Angst  so  mush:  and  desired  she  might  not  take  it  amiss  if  I 
esteemed  her  but  an  odd.  If  I  did  ate  toughturf  Fm  not  a  mishy- 
missy.  Of  course  I  know,  pettest,  you're  so  learningful  and 
considerate  in  yourself,  so  friend  of  vegetables,  you  long  cold  cat 
you!  Please  by  acquiester  to  meek  my  acquointance !  Codling, 
snakelet,  iciclist!  My  diaper  has  more  life  to  it!  Who  drowned 
you  in  drears,  man,  or  are  you  pillale  with  ink?  Did  a  weep  get 
past  the  gates  of  your  pride?  My  tread  on  the  clover,  sweetness? 
Yes,  the  buttercups  told  me,  hug  me,  damn  it  all,  and  I'll  kiss 
you  back  to  life,  my  peachest.  I  mean  to  make  you  suffer, 
meddlar,  and  I  don't  care  this  fig  for  contempt  of  courting. 
That  I  chid  you,  sweet  sir?  You  know  I'm  tender  by  my  eye. 
Can't  you  read  by  dazzling  ones  through  me  true?  Bite  my 
laughters,  drink  my  tears.  Pore  into  me,  volumes,  spell  me  stark 
and  spill  me  swooning.  I  just  don't  care  what  my  thwarters 
think.  Transname  me  loveliness,  now  and  here  me  for  all  times ! 
I'd  risk  a  policeman  passing  by,  Magrath  or  even  that  beggar  of 
a  boots  at  the  Post.  The  flame?  O,  pardone!  That  was  what? 
Ah,  did  you  speak,  stuffstuff?  More  poestries  from  Chickspeer's 
with  gleechoreal  music  or  a  jaculation  from  the  garden  of  the 
soul.  Of  I  be  leib  in  the  immoralities?  O,  you  mean  the  strangle 
for  love  and  the  sowiveall  of  the  prettiest?  Yep,  we  open  hap 
coseries  in  the  home.  And  once  upon  a  week  I  improve  on  myself 
I'm  so  keen  on  that  New  Free  Woman  with  novel  inside.  I'm 
always  as  tickled  as  can  be  over  Man  in  a  Surplus  by  the  Lady 
who  Pays  the  Rates.  But  Fm  as  pie  as  is  possible.  Let's  root 
out  Brimstoker  and  give  him  the  thrall  of  our  lives.  It's  Dracula's 
nightout.  For  creepsake  don't  make  a  flush!  Draw  the  shades, 
curfe  you,  and  Fll  beat  any  sonnamonk  to  love.  Holy  bug,  how 
my  highness  would  jump  to  make  you  flame  your  halve  a  ban- 
nan  in  two  when  I'd  run  my  burning  torchlight  through  (to  adore 

145 


me  there  and  then  cease  to  be?  Whatever  for,  blossoms?)  Your 
hairmejig  if  you  had  one.  If  I  am  laughing  with  you?  No, 
lovingest,  Fm  not  so  dying  to  take  my  rise  out  of  you,  adored. 
Not  in  the  very  least.  True  as  God  made  my  Mamaw  hiplength 
modesty  coatmawther!  It's  only  because  the  rison  is  Fm  only  any 
girl,  you  lovely  fellow  of  my  dreams,  and  because  old  somebooby 
is  not  a  roundabout,  my  trysting  of  the  tulipies,  like  that  puff 
pape  bucking  Daveran  assoiling  us  behinds.  What  a  nerve! 
He  thinks  that's  what  the  vesprey's  for.  How  vain's  that  hope  in 
cleric's  heart  Who  still  pursues  th'adult'  rous  art.  Cocksure  that 
rusty  gown  of  his  Will  make  fair  Sue  forget  his  phiz!  Tame 
Schwipps.  Blessed  Marguerite  bosses,  I  hope  they  threw  away 
the  mould  or  else  we'll  have  Ballshossers  and  Sourdamapplers 
with  their  medical  assassiations  all  over  the  place.  But  hold  hard 
till  I've  got  my  latchkey  vote  and  I'll  teach  him  when  to  wear 
what  woman  callours.  On  account  of  the  gloss  of  the  gleison 
Hasaboobrawbees  isabeaubel.  And  because,  you  pluckless  lanka- 
loot,  I  hate  the  very  thought  of  the  thought  of  you  and  because, 
dearling,  of  course,  adorest,  I  was  always  meant  for  an  engin- 
dear  from  the  French  college,  to  be  musband,  nomme  d'engien^ 
when  we  do  and  contract  with  encho  tencho  solver  when  you 
are  married  to  reading  and  writing  which  pleasebusiness  now 
won't  be  long  for  he's  so  loopy  on  me  and  I'm  so  leapy  like 
since  the  day  he  carried  me  from  the  boat,  my  saviored  of  eroes, 
to  the  beach  and  I  left  on  his  shoulder  one  fair  hair  to  guide  hand 
and  mind  to  its  softness.  Ever  s6  sorry!  I  beg  your  pardon,  I  was 
listening  to  every  treasuried  word  I  said  fell  from  my  dear  mot's 
tongue  otherwise  how  could  I  see  what  you  were  thinking  of 
our  granny?  Only  I  wondered  if  I  threw  out  my  shaving  water. 
Anyway,  here's  my  arm,  pulletneck.  Gracefully  yours.  Move  your 
mouth  towards  minth,  more,  preciousest,  more  on  more!  To 
please  me,  treasure.  Don't  be  a,  I'm  not  going  to!  Sh!  nothing! 
A  cricri  somewhere!  Buybuy!  Fm  fly!  Hear,  pippy,  under  the 
limes.  You  know  bigtree  are  all  against  gravstone.  They  hissliis- 
tenency.  Garnd  ond  mand !  So  chip  chirp  chirrup,  cigolo,  for  the 
lug  of  Migo !  The  little  passdoor,  I  go  you  before,  so,  and  you're 

146 


1 


at  my  apron  stage.  Shy  is  him,  dovey?  Musforget  there's  an 
audience.  I  have  been  lost,  angel.  Cuddle,  ye  divil  ye!  It's  our 
toot-a-toot.  Hearhere!  Sensation!  Let  them,  their  whole  four 
courtships!  Let  them,  Bigbawl  and  his  boosers'  eleven  makes 
twelve  territorials.  The  Old  Sot's  Hole  that  wants  wide  streets  to 
commission  their  noisense  in,  at  the  Mitchells  r.  Nicholls.  Aves 
Selvae  Acquae  Vallesl  And  my  waiting  twenty  classbirds,  sitting 
on  their  stiles !  Let  me  finger  their  eurhythmytic.  And  you'll  see 
if  I'm  selfthought.  They're  all  of  them  out  to  please.  Wait!  In 
the  name  of.  And  all  the  holly.  And  some  the  mistle  and  it  Saint 
Yves.  Hoost!  Ahem!  There's  Ada,  Bett,  Celia,  Delia,  Ena, 
Fretta,  Gilda,  Hilda,  Ita,  Jess,  Katty,  Lou,  (they  make  me  cough 
as  sure  as  I  read  them)  Mina,  Nippa,  Opsy,  Poll,  Queeniee,  Ruth, 
Saucy,  Trix,  Una,  Vela,  Wanda,  Xenia,  Yva,  Zulma,  Phoebe, 
Thelma.  And  Mee!  The  reformatory  boys  is  goaling  in  for  the 
church  so  we've  all  comefeast  like  the  groupsuppers  and  caught 
lipsolution  from  Anty  Pravidance  under  penancies  for  myrtle 
sins.  When  their  bride  was  married  all  my  belles  began  ti  ting. 
A  ring  a  ring  a  rosaring!  Then  everyone  will  hear  of  it.  Whoses 
wishes  is  the  farther  to  my  thoughts.  But  I'll  plant  them  a  poser 
for  their  nomanclatter.  When  they're  out  with  the  daynurse 
doing  Chaperon  Mall.  Bright  pigeons  all  over  the  whirrld  will 
fly  with  my  mistletoe  message  round  their  loveribboned  necks 
and  a  crumb  of  my  cake  for  each  chasta  dieva.  We  keeps  all  and 
sundry  papers.  In  th'  amourlight,  O  my  darling!  No,  I  swear  to 
you  by  Fibsburrow  churchdome  and  Sainte  Andree's  Under- 
shift,  by  all  I  hold  secret  from  my  world  and  in  my  underworld 
of  nighties  and  naughties  and  all  the  other  wonderwearlds ! 
Close  your,  notmust  look!  Now  open,  pet,  your  lips,  pepette, 
like  I  used  my  sweet  parted  lipsabuss  with  Dan  Holohan  of 
facetious  memory  taught  me  after  the  flannel  dance,  with  the 
proof  of  love,  up  Smock  Alley  the  first  night  he  smelled  pouder 
and  I  coloured  beneath  my  fan,  pipetta  mia^  when  you  learned 
me  the  linguo  to  melt.  Whowham  would  have  ears  like  ours, 
the  blackhaired !  Do  you  like  that,  sileniiosoF  Are  you  enjoying, 
this  same  little  me,  my  life,  my  love.^  Why  do  you  like  my 

147 


whisping?  Is  it  not  divinely  deluscious?  But  in't  it  bafforyou? 
Misty  misU  Tell  me  till  my  thrillme  comes!  I  will  not  break  the 
seal.  I  am  enjoying  it  still,  I  swear  I  am!  Why  do  you  prefer  its 
in  these  dark  nets,  if  why  may  ask,  my  sweety  kins?  Sh  sh!  Long- 
ears  is  flying.  No,  sweetissest,  why  would  that  ennoy  me.^  But 
don't!  You  want  to  be  slap  well  slapped  for  that.  Your  delighted 
lips,  love,  be  careful!  Mind  my  duvetyne  dress  above  all!  It's 
golded  silvy,  the  newest  sextones  with  princess  effect.  For  Rut- 
land blue's  got  out  of  passion.  So,  so,  my  precious!  O,  I  can  see 
the  cost,  chare!  Don't  tell  me!  Why,  the  boy  in  sheeps'  lane 
knows  that.  If  I  sell  whose,  dears.'^  Was  I  sold  here'  tears.'^  You 
mean  those  conversation  lozenges.'^  How  awful!  The  bold  shame 
of  me!  I  wouldn't,  chickens,  not  for  all  the  juliettes  in  the  twinkly 
way!  I  could  snap  them  when  I  see  them  winking  at  me  in  bed. 
I  didn't  did  so,  my  intended,  or  was  going  to  or  thinking  of. 
Shshsh!  Don't  start  like  that,  you  wretch!  I  thought  ye  knew  all 
and  more,  ye  aucthor,  to  explique  to  ones  the  significat  of  their 
exsy stems  with  your  nieu  nivulon  lead.  It's  only  another  queer 
fish  or  other  in  Brinbrou's  damned  old  trouchorous  river  again, 
Gothewishegoths  bless  us  and  spare  her!  And  gibos  rest  from  the 
bosso !  Excuse  me  for  swearing,  love,  I  swear  to  the  sorrasims  on 
their  trons  of  Uian  I  didn't  mean  to  by  this  alpin  armlet!  Did  you 
really  never  in  all  our  cantalang  lives  speak  clothse  to  a  girl's 
before.^  No!  Not  even  to  the  charmermaid.'^  How  marfellows! 
Of  course  I  believe  you,  my  own  dear  doting  liest,  when  you 
tell  me.  As  I'd  live  to,  O,  I'd  love  to!  Liss,  liss!  I  muss  whiss! 
Never  that  ever  or  I  can  remember  dearstreaming  faces,  you  may 
go  through  me!  Never  in  all  my  whole  white  life  of  my  match- 
less and  pair.  Or  ever  for  bitter  be  the  frucht  of  this  hour!  With 
my  whiteness  I  thee  woo  and  bind  my  silk  breasths  I  thee  bound ! 
Always,  Amory,  amor  andmore!  Till  always,  thou  lovest! 
Shshshsh!  So  long  as  the  lucksmith.  Laughs! 

II.  If  you  met  on  the  binge  a  poor  acheseyeld  from  Ailing, 
when  the  tune  of  his  tremble  shook  shimmy  on  shin,  while  his 
countrary  raged  in  the  weak  of  his  wailing,  like  a  rugilant  pugi- 
lant  Lyon  O'Lynn;  if  he  maundered  in  misliness,  plaining  his 

148 


; 


5 


plight  or,  played  fox  and  lice,  pricking  and  dropping  hips  teeth, 
or  wringing  his  handcuffs  for  peace,  the  blind  blighter,  praying 
Dieuf  and  Domb  Nostrums  foh  thomethinks  to  eath;  if  he 
weapt  while  he  leapt  and  gufFalled  quith  a  quhimper,  made  cold 
blood  a  blue  mundy  and  no  bones  without  flech,  taking  kiss, 
kake  or  kick  with  a  suck,  sigh  or  simper,  a  diffle  to  larn  and  a 
dibble  to  lech;  if  the  fain  shinner  pegged  you  to  shave  his  im- 
martial,  wee  skillmustered  shoul  with  his  ooh,  hoodoodoo !  brok- 
ing wind  that  to  wiles,  woemaid  sin  he  was  partial,  we  don't 
think,  Jones,  we'd  care  to  this  evening,  would  you? 

Answer:  No,  blank  ye!  So  you  think  I  have  impulsivism?  Did 
they  tell  you  I  am  one  of  the  fortysixths?  And  I  suppose  you 
heard  I  had  a  wag  on  my  ears?  And  I  suppose  they  told  you  too 
that  my  roll  of  life  is  not  natural?  But  before  proceeding  to  con- 
clusively confute  this  begging  question  it  would  be  far  fitter  for 
you,  if  you  dare !  to  hasitate  to  consult  with  and  consequentially 
attempt  at  my  disposale  of  the  same  dime-cash  problem  elsewhere 
naturalistically  of  course,  from  the  blinkpoint  of  so  eminent  a 
spatialist.  From  it  you  will  here  notice,  Schott,  upon  my  for  the 
first  remarking  you  that  the  sophology  of  Bitchson  while  driven 
as  under  by  a  purely  dime-dime  urge  is  not  without  his  cashcash 
characktericksticks,  borrowed  for  its  nonce  ends  from  the  fiery 
goodmother  Miss  Fortune  (who  the  lost  time  we  had  the  pleasure 
we  have  had  our  little  recherche  brush  with,  what,  Schott?)  and 
as  I  furtlier  could  have  told  you  as  brisk  as  your  D.B.C.  beha- 
viouristically  paillete  with  a  coat  of  homoid  icing  which  is  in 
reality  only  a  done  by  chance  ridiculisation  of  the  whoo-whoo 
and  where's  hairs  theories  of  Winestain.  To  put  it  all  the  more 
plumbsily.  The  speechform  is  a  mere  sorrogate.  Whilst  the  qua- 
lity and  tality  (I  shall  explex  what  you  ought  to  mean  by  this  with 
its  proper  when  and  where  and  why  and  how  in  the  subsequent 
sentence)  are  alternativomentally  harrogate  and  arrogate,  as  the 
gates  may  be. 

Talis  is  a  word  often  abused  by  many  passims  (I  am  working 
out  a  quantum  theory  about  it  for  it  is  really  most  tantumising 
state  of  affairs).  A  pessim  may  frequent  you  to  say:  Have  you  been 

149 


seeing  much  of  Talis  and  Talis  those  times?  optimately  meaning: 
Will  you  put  up  at  hree  of  irish?  Or  a  ladyeater  may  perhaps  have 
casualised  as  you  temptoed  her  a  la  sourdine-.  Of  your  plates?  Is 
Talis  de  Talis,  the  swordswallower,  who  is  on  at  the  Craterium 
the  same  Talis  von  Talis,  the  penscrusher,  no  funk  you  1  who  runs 
his  duly  mile?  Or  this  is  a  perhaps  cleaner  example.  At  a  recent 
postvortex  piece  infustigation  of  a  determinised  case  of  chronic 
spinosis  an  extension  lecturer  on  The  Ague  who  out  of  matter  of 
form  was  trying  his  seesers,  Dr's  Het  Ubeleeft,  borrowed  the 
question:  Why's  which  Suchman's  talis  qualis?  to  whom,  as  a 
fatter  of  macht,  Dr  Gedankje  of  Stoutgirth,  who  was  wiping  his 
whistle,  toarsely  retoarted:  While  thou  beast'  one  zoom  of  a 
whorl!  (Talis  and  Talis  originally  mean  the  same  thing,  hit  it's: 
Qualis.) 

Professor  Loewy-Brueller  (though  as  I  shall  promptly  prove 
his  whole  account  of  the  Sennacherib  as  distinct  from  the  Shal- 
manesir  sanitational  reforms  and  of  the  Mr  Skekels  and  Dr 
Hydes  problem  in  the  same  connection  differs  tow  coelo  from  the 
fruit  of  my  own  investigations  —  though  the  reason  I  went  to 
Jericho  must  remain  for  certain  reasons  a  political  secret  — 
especially  as  I  shall  shortly  be  wanted  in  Cavantry,  I  congratulate 
myself,  for  the  same  and  other  reasons  —  as  being  again  hope- 
lessly vitiated  by  what  I  have  now  resolved  to  call  the  dime  and 
cash  diamond  fallacy)  in  his  talked  off  confession  which  recently 
met  with  such  a  leonine  uproar  on  its  escape  after  its  confinement 
Why  am  I  not  horn  like  a  Gentileman  and  why  am  I  now  so  speak- 
able  about  my  own  eatables  (Feigenbaumblatt  and  Father,  Juda- 
pest,  5688,  A.M.)  whole-heartedly  takes  off  his  gabbercoat  and 
wig,  honest  draughty  fellow,  in  his  public  interest,  to  make  us 
see  how  though,  as  he  says:  *by  Allswill'  the  inception  and  the 
descent  and  the  endswell  of  Man  is  temporarily  wrapped  in  ob- 
scenity, looking  through  at  these  accidents  with  the  faroscope  of 
television,  (this  nightlife  instrument  needs  still  some  subtrac- 
tional  betterment  in  the  readjustment  of  the  more  refrangible 
angles  to  the  squeals  of  his  hypothesis  on  the  outer  tin  sides),  I 
can  easily  believe  heartily  in  my  own  most  spacious  immensity 

150 


as  my  ownhouse  and  microbemost  cosm  when  I  am  reassured  by 
ratio  that  the  cube  of  my  volumes  is  to  the  surfaces  of  their  sub- 
jects as  the  sphericity  of  these  globes  (I  am  very  pressing  for  a 
parliamentary  motion  this  term  which,  under  my  guidance,  would 
establish  the  deleteriousness  of  decorousness  in  the  morbidis- 
ation  of  the  modern  mandaboutwoman  type)  is  to  the  fera- 
city  of  Fairynelly's  vacuum.  I  need  not  anthrapologise  for  any 
obintentional  (I  must  here  correct  all  that  school  of  neoitalian  or 
paleoparisien  schola  of  tinkers  and  spanglers  who  say  Fm  wrong 
parcequeue  out  of  revolscian  from  romanitis  I  want  to  be)  down- 
trodding  on  my  foes.  Professor  Levi-Brullo,  F.D.  of  Sexe- 
Weiman-Eitelnaky  finds,  from  experiments  made  by  hinn  with 
his  Nuremberg  eggs  in  the  one  hands  and  the  watches  cunldron 
apan  the  oven,  though  it  is  astensably  a  case  of  Ket*s  rebollions 
cooling  the  Popes  back,  because  the  number  of  squeer  faiths 
in  weekly  circulation  will  not  be  appreciably  augmented  by  the 
notherslogging  of  my  cupolar  clods.  What  the  romantic  in  rags 
pines  after  like  all  tomtompions  haunting  crevices  for  a  deadbeat 
escupement  and  what  het  importunes  our  Mitleid  for  in  accornish 
with  the  Mortadarthella  taradition  is  the  poorest  commonon- 
guardiant  waste  of  time.  His  everpresent  toes  are  always  in 
retaliessian  out  throuth  his  overpast  boots.  Hear  him  squak! 
Teek  heet  to  that  looswallawer  how  he  bolo  the  bat!  Tyro  a 
toray!  When  Mullocky  won  the  couple  of  colds,  when  we  were 
stripping  in  number  three,  I  would  like  the  neat  drop  that  would 
malt  in  my  mouth  but  I  fail  to  see  when  (I  am  purposely  refrain- 
ing from  expounding  the  obvious  fallacy  as  to  the  specific 
gravitates  of  the  two  deglutables  implied  nor  to  the  lapses 
lequou  asousiated  with  the  royal  gorge  through  students  of 
mixed  hydrostatics  and  pneumodipsics  will  after  some  difficulties 
grapple  away  with  my  meinungs).  Myrrdin  aloer!  as  old  Mar- 
sellas  Cambriannus  puts  his.  But,  on  Professor  Llewellys  ap 
Bryllars,  F.D.,  Ph.  Dr's  showings,  the  plea,  if  he  pleads, 
is  all  posh  and  robbage  on  a  melodeontic  scale  since  his  man's 
when  is  no  otherman's  quandour  (Mine,  dank  you.^)  while,  for 
aught  I  care  for  the  contrary,  the  all  is  where  in  love  as  war  and 

151 


the  plane  where  me  arts  soar  you*d  aisy  rouse  a  thunder  from  and 
where  I  cling  true'tis  there  I  climb  tree  and  where  Innocent  looks 
best  (pick!)  there's  holly  in  his  ives. 

As  my  explanations  here  are  probably  above  your  understand- 
ings, lattlebrattons,  though  as  augmentatively  uncomparisoned 
as  Cadwan,  Cadwallon  and  Cadwalloner,  I  shall  revert  to  a  more 
expletive  method  which  I  frequently  use  when  I  have  to  sermo 
with  muddlecrass  pupils.  Imagine  for  my  purpose  that  you  are  a 
squad  of  urchins,  snifflynosed,  goslingnecked,  clothyheaded, 
tangled  in  your  lacings,  tingled  in  your  pants,  etsitaraw  etcicero. 
And  you,  Bruno  Nowlan,  take  your  tongue  out  of  your  inkpot  1 
As  none  of  you  knows  javanese  I  will  give  all  my  easyfree  trans- 
lation of  the  old  fabulist's  parable.  Allaboy  Minor,  take  your 
head  out  of  your  satchel!  Audi^  Joe  Peters!  Exaudi  facts! 

The  Mookse  and  The  Gripes. 

Gentes  and  laitymen,  fullstoppers  and  semicolonials,  hybreds 
and  lubberds! 

Eins  within  a  space  and  a  weary  wide  space  it  wast  ere  wohned 
a  Mookse.  The  onesomeness  wast  alltolonely,  archunsitslike, 
broady  oval,  and  a  Mookse  he  would  a  walking  go  (My  hood! 
cries  Antony  Romeo),  so  one  grandsumer  evening,  after  a  great 
morning  and  his  good  supper  of  gammon  and  spittish,  having 
flabelled  his  eyes,  pilleoled  his  nostrils,  vacticanated  his  ears  and 
palliumed  his  throats,  he  put  on  his  impermeable,  seized  his  im- 
pugnable, harped  on  his  crown  and  stepped  out  of  his  immobile 
De  Rure  Albo  (socolled  becauld  it  was  chalkfull  of  masterplasters 
and  had  borgeously  letout  gardens  strown  with  cascadas,  pinta- 
costecas,  horthoducts  and  currycombs)  and  set  off  from  Luds- 
town  a  spasso  to  see  how  badness  was  badness  in  the  weirdest  of 
all  pensible  ways. 

As  he  set  off  with  his  father's  sword,  his  lancia  spe^ata^  he  was 
girded  on,  and  with  that  between  his  legs  and  his  tarkeels,  our 
once  in  only  Bragspear,  he  clanked,  to  my  clinking,  from  veetoes 
to  threetop,  every  inch  of  an  immortal. 

He  had  not  walked  over  a  pentiadpair  of  parsecs  from  his 
azylium  when  at  the  turning  of  the  Shinshone  Lanteran  near 

152 


I 


1 


Saint  Bowery's-without-his- Walls  he  came  (secunding  to  the  one 
one  oneth  of  the  propecies,  Amnis  Limina  Permanent)  upon  the 
most  unconsciously  boggylooking  stream  he  ever  locked  his 
eyes  with.  Out  of  the  colliens  it  took  a  rise  by  daubing  itself  Ni- 
non. It  looked  little  and  it  smelt  of  brown  and  it  thought  in  nar- 
rows and  it  talked  showshallow.  And  as  it  rinn  it  dribbled  like  any 
lively  purliteasy:  My^  my^  my!  Me  and  me!  Little  down  dream 
dont  I  love  thee! 

And,  I  declare,  what  was  there  on  the  yonder  bank  of  the 
stream  that  would  be  a  river,  parched  on  a  limb  of  the  olum,  bolt 
downright,  but  the  Gripes?  And  no  doubt  he  was  fit  to  be  dried 
for  why  had  he  not  been  having  the  juice  of  his  times.'^ 

His  pips  had  been  neatly  all  drowned  on  him;  his  polps  were 
charging  odours  every  older  minute;  he  was  quickly  for  getting 
the  dresser's  desdaign  on  the  flyleaf  of  his  frons;  and  he  was 
quietly  for  giving  the  bailiff's  distrain  on  to  the  bulkside  of  his 
cul  de  Pompe,  In  all  his  specious  heavings,  as  be  lived  by  Opti- 
mus  Maximus,  the  Mookse  had  never  seen  his  Dubville  brooder- 
on-low  so  nigh  to  a  pickle. 

Adrian  (that  was  the  Mookse  now's  assumptinome)  stuccstill 
phiz-a-phiz  to  the  Gripes  in  an  accessit  of  aurignacian.  But  All- 
mookse  must  to  Moodend  much  as  Allrouts,  austereways  or 
wastersways,  in  roaming  run  through  Room.  Hie  sor  a  stone, 
singularly  illud,  and  on  hoc  stone  Seter  satt  hue  sate  which  it 
filled  quite  poposterously  and  by  acclammitation  to  its  fullest 
justotoryum  and  whereopum  with  his  unfallable  encyclicling 
upom  his  alloilable,  diupetriark  of  the  wouest,  and  the  athemyst- 
sprinkled  pederect  he  always  walked  with,  Deusdedit^  cheek  by 
jowel  with  his  frisherman's  blague,  Bellua  Triumphanes^  his 
everyway  addedto  wallat's  collectium,  for  yea  longer  he  lieved 
yea  broader  he  betaught  of  it,  the  fetter,  the  summe  and  the  haul 
it  cost,  he  looked  the  first  and  last  micahlike  laicness  of  Quartus 
the  Fifth  and  Quintus  the  Sixth  and  Sixtus  the  Seventh  giving 
allnight  sitting  to  Lio  the  Faultyfindth. 

—  Good  appetite  us,  sir  Mookse!  How  do  you  do  it.^  cheeped 
the  Gripes  in  a  wherry  whiggy  maudelenian  woice  and  the  jack- 

153 


asses  all  within  bawl  laughed  and  brayed  for  his  intentions  for 
they  knew  their  sly  toad  lowry  now.  I  am  rarumominum  blessed 
to  see  you,  my  dear  mouster.  Will  you  not  perhopes  tell  me 
everything  if  you  are  pleased,  sanity?  All  about  aulne  and  lithial 
and  allsall  allinall  about  awn  and  liseias?  Ney? 

Think  of  it!  O  miserendissimest  retempter!  A  Gripes! 

—  Rats!  bullowed  the  Mookse  most  telesphorously,  the  con- 
cionator,  and  the  sissymusses  and  the  zozzymusses  in  their  ro- 
benhauses  quailed  to  hear  his  tardeynois  at  all  for  you  cannot 
wake  a  silken  nouse  out  of  a  hoarse  oar.  Blast  yourself  and  your 
anathomy  infairioriboos !  No,  hang  you  for  an  animal  rurale!  I 
am  superbly  in  my  supremest  poncif!  Abase  you,  baldyqueens! 
Gather  behind  me,  satraps!  Rots! 

—  I  am  till  infinity  obliged  with  you,  bowed  the  Gripes,  his 
whine  having  gone  to  his  palpruy  head.  I  am  still  always  having 
a  wish  on  all  my  extremities.  By  the  watch,  what  is  the  time,  pace.^ 

Figure  it!  The  pining  peever!  To  a  Mookse! 

—  Ask  my  index,  mund  my  achilles,  swell  my  obolum,  wosh- 
up  my  nase  serene,  answered  the  Mookse,  rapidly  by  turning 
clement,  urban,  eugenious  and  celestian  in  the  formose  of  good 
grogory  humours.  Quote  awhore.'^  That  is  quite  about  what  I 
came  on  my  missions  with  my  intentions  laudibiliter  to  settle  with 
you^  barbarousse.  Let  thor  be  orlog.  Let  Pauline  be  Irene.  Let 
you  be  Beeton.  And  let  me  be  Los  Angeles.  Now  measure  your 
length.  Now  estimate  my  capacity.  Well,  sour.'^  Is  this  space  of 
our  couple  of  hours  too  dimensional  for  you,  temporiser.'^  Will 
you  give  you  up.'^  Como?  Fuert  it? 

Sancta  Padentiaf  You  should  have  heard  the  voice  that  an- 
swered him !  Culla  vosellina, 

—  I  was  just  thinkling  upon  that,  swees  Mooksey,  but,  for  all 
the  rime  on  my  raisins,  if  I  connow  make  my  submission,  I  can- 
nos  give  you  up,  the  Gripes  whimpered  from  nethermost  of  his 
wanhope.  Ishallassoboundbewilsothoutoosezit.  My  tumble,  lou- 
dy  bullocker,  is  my  own.  My  velicity  is  too  fit  in  one  stockend. 
And  my  spetial  inexshellsis  the  belowing  things  ab  ove.  But  I 
will  never  be  abler  to  tell  Your  Honoriousness  (here  he  near  lost 

154 


his  limb)  though  my  corked  father  was  bott  a  pseudowaiter, 
whose  o'cloak  you  ware. 

Incredible!  Well,  hear  the  inevitable. 

—  Your  temple,  sus  in  crihro!  Semperexcommunicambiambi- 
sumers.  Tugurios-in-Newrobe  or  Tukurias-in-Ashies.  Novar- 
ome,  my  creature,  blievend  bleives.  My  building  space  in  lyonine 
city  is  always  to  let  to  leonlike  Men,  the  Mookse  in  a  most  con- 
sistorous  allocution  pompifically  with  immediate  jurisdiction 
constantinently  concludded  (what  a  crammer  for  the  shape- 
wrucked  Gripes!).  And  I  regret  to  proclaim  that  it  is  out  of  my 
temporal  to  help  you  from  being  killed  by  inchies,  (what  a 
thrust!),  as  we  first  met  each  other  newwhere  so  airly.  (Poor 
little  sowsieved  subsquashed  Gripes!  I  begin  to  feel  contemption 
for  him!).  My  side,  thank  decretals,  is  as  safe  as  motherour's 
houses,  he  continued,  and  I  can  seen  from  my  holeydome  what 
it  is  to  be  wholly  sane.  Unionjok  and  be  joined  to  yok!  Parysis, 
tu  saisy  crucycrooks,  belongs  to  him  who  parises  himself.  And 
there  I  must  leave  you  subject  for  the  pressing.  I  can  prove  that 
against  you,  weight  a  momentum,  mein  goot  enemy!  or  Cos- 
poFs  not  our  star.  I  bet  you  this  dozen  odd.  This  foluminous 
dozen  odd.  Quas  primas — but  'tis  bitter  to  compote  my  know- 
ledge's fructos  of.  Tomes. 

Elevating,  to  give  peint  to  his  blick,  his  jewelled  pederect  to 
the  allmysty  cielung,  he  luckystruck  blueild  out  of  a  few  should- 
be  santillants,  a  cloister  of  starabouts  over  Maples,  a  lucciolys  in 
Teresa  street  and  a  stopsign  before  Sophy  Barratt's,  he  gaddered 
togodder  the  odds  docence  of  his  vellumes,  gresk,  letton  and 
russicruxian,  onto  the  lapse  of  his  prolegs,  into  umfullth  one- 
scuppered,  and  sat  about  his  widerproof.  He  proved  it  well  who- 
onearth  dry  and  drysick  times,  and  vremiamenty  tu  cesses^  to  the 
extinction  of  Niklaus  altogether  (Niklaus  Alopysius  having  been 
the  once  Gripes's  popwilled  nimbum)  by  Neuclidius  and  In- 
exagoras  and  Mumfsen  and  Thumpsem,  by  Orasmus  and  by 
Amenius,  by  Anacletus  the  Jew  and  by  Malachy  the  Augurer  and 
by  the  Cappon's  collection  and  after  that,  with  Cheekee's  gela- 
tine and  Alldaybrandy's  formolon,  he  reproved  it  ehrltogether 

155 


when  not  in  that  order  sundering  in  some  different  order,  aher 
three  thirty  and  a  hundred  times  by  the  binomial  dioram  and 
the  penic  walls  and  the  ind,  the  Inklespill  legends  and  the  rure, 
the  rule  of  the  hoop  and  the  blessons  of  expedience  and  the  jus, 
the  jugicants  of  Pontius  Pilax  and  all  the  mummyscrips  in  Sick 
Bokes'  Juncroom  and  the  Chapters  for  the  Cunning  of  the  Chap- 
ters of  the  Conning  Fox  by  Tail. 

While  that  Mooksius  with  preprocession  and  with  propre- 
cession,  duplicitly  and  diplussedly,  was  promulgating  ipsofacts 
and  sadcontras  this  raskolly  Gripos  he  had  allbust  seceded  in 
monophysicking  his  illsobordunates.  But  asawfulas  he  had 
caught  his  base  semenoyous  sarchnaktiers  to  combuccinate  upon 
the  silipses  of  his  aspillouts  and  the  acheporeoozers  of  his  haggy- 
own  pneumax  to  synerethetise  with  the  breadchestviousness  of 
his  sweeatovular  ducose  sofarfully  the  loggerthuds  of  his  sakel- 
laries  were  fond  at  variance  with  the  synodals  of  his  spmepooliom 
and  his  babskissed  nepogreasymost  got  the  hoof  from  his  philio- 
quus. 

—  Efter  thousand  yaws,  O  Gripes  con  my  sheepskins,  yow 
will  be  belined  to  the  world,  enscayed  Mookse  the  pius. 

—  Ofter  thousand  yores,  amsered  Gripes  the  gregary,  be  the 
goat  of  MacHammud's,  yours  may  be  still,  O  Mookse,  more 
botheared. 

—  Us  shall  be  chosen  as  the  first  of  the  last  by  the  electress  of 
Vale  Hollow,  obselved  the  Mookse  nobily,  for  par  the  unicum 
of  Elelijiacks,  Us  am  in  Our  stabulary  and  that  is  what  Ruby  and 
Roby  fall  for,  blissim. 

The  Pills,  the  Nasal  Wash  (Yardly's),  the  Army  Man  Cut,  as 
british  as  bondstrict  and  as  straightcut  as  when  that  broken- 
arched  traveller  from  Nuzuland  .  . . 

—  Wee,  cumfused  the  Gripes  limply,  shall  not  even  be  the 
last  of  the  first,  wee  hope,  when  oust  are  visitated  by  the  Veiled 
Horror.  And,  he  added:  Mee  are  relying  entirely,  see  the  forte- 
thurd  of  Elissabed,  on  the  weigh tiness  of  mear's  breath.  Puffut! 

Unsightbared  embouscher,  relentless  foe  to  social  and  business 
succes !  (Hourihaleine)  It  might  have  been  a  happy  evening  but . . . 

156 

