enjoins  on  the  tremylose  terrian  that,  when  the  call  comes,  he 
shall  produce  nichthemerically  from  his  unheavenly  body  a  no 
uncertain  quantity  of  obscene  matter  not  protected  by  copriright 
in  the  United  Stars  of  Ourania  or  bedeed  and  bedood  and  bedang 
and  bedung  to  him,  with  this  double  dye,  brought  to  blood  heat, 
gallic  acid  on  iron  ore,  through  the  bowels  of  his  misery,  flashly, 
faithly,  nastily,  appropriately,  this  Esuan  Menschavik  and  the  first 
till  last  alshemist  wrote  over  every  square  inch  of  the  only  fools- 
cap available,  his  own  body,  till  by  its  corrosive  sublimation  one 

185 


continuous  present  tense  integument  slowly  unfolded  all  marry- 
voising  moodmoulded  cyclewheeling  history  (thereby,  he  said, 
reflecting  from  his  own  individual  person  life  unlivable,  trans- 
accidentated  through  the  slow  fires  of  consciousness  into  a  divi- 
dual chaos,  perilous,  potent,  common  to  allflesh,  human  only, 
mortal)  but  with  each  word  that  would  not  pass  away  the  squid- 
self  which  he  had  squirtscreened  from  the  crystalline  world 
waned  chagreenold  and  doriangrayer  in  its  dudhud.  This  exists 
that  isits  after  having  been  said  we  know.  And  dabal  take  dab- 
nal!  And  the  dal  dabal  dab  aldanabal!  So  perhaps,  agglaggagglo- 
meratively  asaspenking,  after  all  and  arklast  fore  arklyst  on  his 
last  public  misappearance,  circling  the  square,  for  the  deathfete 
of  Saint  Ignaceous  Poisonivy,  of  the  Fickle  Crowd  (hopon  the 
sexth  day  of  Hogsober,  killim  our  king,  layum  low!)  and  brandish- 
ing his  bellbearing  stylo,  the  shining  keyman  of  the  wilds  of 
change,  if  what  is  sauce  for  the  zassy  is  souse  for  the  zazimas,  the 
blond  cop  who  thought  it  was  ink  was  out  of  his  depth  but 
bright  in  the  mairu 

Petty  constable  Sistersen  of  the  Kruis-Kroon-Kraal  it  was,  the 
parochial  watch,  big  the  dog  the  dig  the  bog  the  bagger  the 
dugger  the  begadag  degabug,  who  had  been  detailed  from  pollute 
stoties  to  save  him,  this  the  quemquem,  that  the  quum,  from  the 
ligatureliablous  effects  of  foul  clay  in  little  clots  and  mobmauling 
on  looks,  that  wrongcountered  the  tenderfoot  an  eveling  near 
the  livingsmeansuniumgetherum,  Knockmaree,  Comty  Mea,  reel- 
ing more  to  the  right  than  he  lurched  to  the  left,  on  his  way  from 
a  protoprostitute  (he  would  always  have  a  (stp !)  little  pigeoness 
somewhure  with  his  arch  girl,  Arcoiris,  smockname  of  Mergyt) 
just  as  he  was  butting  in  rand  the  coyner  of  bad  times  under  a 
hideful  between  the  rival  doors  of  warm  bethels  of  worship 
through  his  boardelhouse  fongster,  greeting  for  grazious  oras 
as  usual:  Where  ladies  have  they  that  a  dog  meansort  herring? 
Sergo,  search  me,  the  incapable  reparteed  with  a  selfevitant 
subtlety  so  obviously  spurious  and,  raising  his  hair,  after  the 
grace,  with  the  christmas  under  his  clutcharm,  for  Portsymasser 
and  Purtsymessus  and  Pertsymiss  and  Partsymasters,  like  a  prance 

i86 


J 


of  findingos,  with  a  shillto  shallto  slipny  stripny,  in  he  skittled. 
Swikey!  The  allwhite  poors  guardiant,  pulpably  of  balltossic 
stummung,  was  literally  astundished  over  the  painful  sake,  how 
he  burstteself,  which  he  was  gone  to,  where  he  intent  to  did  he, 
whether  you  think  will,  wherend  the  whole  current  of  the  after- 
noon whats  the  souch  of  a  surch  hads  of  hits  of  hims,  urged  and 
staggered  thereto  in  his  countryports  at  the  caledosian  capacity 
for  Lieutuvisky  of  the  caftan's  wineskin  and  even  more  so, 
during,  looking  his  bigmost  astonishments,  it  was  said  him, 
aschu,  fun  the  concerned  outgift  of  the  dead  med  dirt,  how  that, 
arrahbejibbers,  conspuent  to  the  dominical  order  and  exking 
noblish  permish,  he"  was  namely  coon  at  bringer  at  home  two 
gallonts,  as  per  royal,  full  poultry  till  his  murder.  Nip  up  and 
nab  it! 

Polthergeistkotzdondherhoploits!  Kick.'^  What  mother.^  Whose 
porter.'^  Which  pair.^  Why  namely  coon.^  But  our  undilligence  has 
been  plutherotested  so  enough  of  such  porterblack  lowneess,  too 
base  for  printink !  Perpending  that  Putterick  O'Purcell  pulls  the 
coald  stoane  out  of  Winterwater's  and  Silder  Seas  sing  for  Harreng 
our  Keng,  sept  okt  nov  dez  John  Phibbs  march!  We  cannot,  in 
mercy  or  justice  nor  on  the  lovom  for  labaryntos,  stay  here  for 
the  residence  of  our  existings,  discussing  Tamstar  Ham  of  Ten- 
man's  thirst. 

JUSTIUS  (to  himother):  Brawn  is  my  name  and  broad  is  my 
nature  and  I've  breit  on  my  brow  and  all's  right  with  every  fea- 
ture and  I'll  brune  this  bird  or  Brown  Bess's  bung's  gone  bandy. 
I'm  the  boy  to  bruise  and  braise.  Baus ! 

Stand  forth,  Nayman  of  Noland  (for  no  longer  will  I  follow 
you  obliquelike  through  the  inspired  form  of  the  third  person 
singular  and  the  moods  and  hesitensies  of  the  deponent  but  ad- 
dress myself  to  you,  with  the  empirative  of  my  vendettative,  pro- 
vocative and  out  direct),  stand  forth,  come  boldly,  jolly  me, 
move  me,  zwilling  though  I  am,  to  laughter  in  your  true  colours 
ere  you  be  back  for  ever  till  I  give  you  your  talkingto!  Shem 
Macadamsoh,  you  know  me  and  I  know  you  and  all  your  she- 
meries.  Where  have  you  been  in  the  uterim,  enjoying  yourself 

187 


all  the  morning  since  your  last  wetbed  confession?  I  advise  you 
to  conceal  yourself,  my  little  friend,  as  I  have  said  a  moment 
ago  and  put  your  hands  in  my  hands  and  have  a  nightslong 
homely  little  confiteor  about  things.  Let  me  see.  It  is  looking 
pretty  black  against  you,  we  suggest,  Sheem  avick.  You  will 
need  all  the  elements  in  the  river  to  clean  you  over  it  all  and  a 
fortifine  popespriestpower  bull  of  attender  to  booth. 

Let  us  pry.  We  thought,  would  and  did.  Cuty  quicquid,  ubiy 
quando,  quomodo,  quotiesy  quibus  auxiliis?  You  were  bred,  fed, 
fostered  and  fattened  from  holy  childhood  up  in  this  two  easter 
island  on  the  piejaw  of  hilarious  heaven  and  roaring  the  other 
place  (plunders  to  night  of  you,  blunders  what's  left  of  you,  flash 
as  flash  can!)  and  now,  forsooth,  a  nogger  among  the  blankards 
of  this  dastard  century,  you  have  become  of  twosome  twiminds 
forenenst  gods,  hidden  and  discovered,  nay,  condemned  fool, 
anarch,  egoarch,  hiresiarch,  you  have  reared  your  disunited  king- 
dom on  the  vacuum  of  your  own  most  intensely  doubtful  soul. 
Do  you  hold  yourself  then  for  some  god  in  the  manger,  Sheho- 
hem,  that  you  will  neither  serve  not  let  serve,  pray  nor  let  pray? 
And  here,  pay  the  piety,  must  I  too  nerve  myself  to  pray  for  the 
loss  of  selfrespect  to  equip  me  for  the  horrible  necessity  of  scan- 
dalisang  (my  dear  sisters,  are  you  ready?)  by  sloughing  off  my 
hope  and  tremors  while  we  all  swin  togedier  in  the  pool  of  So- 
dom? I  shall  shiver  for  my  purity  while  they  will  weepbig  for 
your  sins.  Away  with  covered  words,  new  Solemonities  for  old 
Badsheetbaths !  That  inharmonious  detail,  did  you  name  it?  Cold 
caldor!  Gee!  Victory!  Now,  opprobro  of  underslung  pipes, 
johnjacobs,  while  yet  an  adolescent  (what  do  I  say?),  while 
still  puerile  in  your  tubsuit  with  buttonlegs,  you  got  a  hand- 
some present  of  a  selfraising  syringe  and  twin  feeders  (you  know. 
Monsieur  Abgott,  in  your  art  of  arts,  to  your  cost  as  well  as  I  do 
(and  don't  try  to  hide  it)  the  penals  lots  I  am  now  poking  at)  and 
the  wheeze  sort  of  was  you  should  (if  you  were  as  bould  a  stroke 
now  as  the  curate  that  christened  you,  sonny  douth-the-candle!) 
repopulate  the  land  of  your  birth  and  count  up  your  progeny  by 
the  hungered  head  and  the  angered  thousand  but  you  thwarted 

i88 


the  wious  pish  of  your  cogodparents,  soph,  among  countless 
occasions  of  failing  (for,  said  you,  I  will  elenchate),  adding  to  the 
malice  of  your  transgression,  yes,  and  changing  its  nature,  (you 
see  I  have  read  your  theology  for  you)  alternating  the  morosity 
of  my  delectations  —  a  philtred  love,  trysting  by  tantrums, 
small  peace  in  ppenmark  —  with  sensibility,  sponsibility,  passi- 
bility  and  prostability,  your  lubbock's  other  fear  pleasures  of  a 
butler's  life,  even  extruding  your  strabismal  apologia,  when 
legibly  depressed,  upon  defenceless  paper  and  thereby  adding  to 
the  already  unhappiness  of  this  our  popeyed  world,  scribblative ! 
—  all  that  too  with  cantreds  of  countless  catchaleens,  the  man- 
nish as  many  as  the  minneful,  congested  around  and  about  you 
for  acres  and  roods  and  poles  or  perches,  thick  as  the  fluctuant 
sands  of  Chalwador,  accomplished  women,  indeed  fully  edu- 
canded,  far  from  being  old  and  rich  behind  their  dream  of  arri- 
visme,  if  they  have  only  their  honour  left,  and  not  deterred  by  bad 
weather  when  consumed  by  amorous  passion,  struggling  to  pos- 
sess themselves  of  your  boosh,  one  son  of  Sorge  for  all  daughters 
of  Anguish,  solus  cum  sola  sive  cuncdes  cum  omnihohs  (I'd  have 
been  the  best  man  for  you,  myself),  mutely  aying  for  that  natural 
knot,  debituary  vases  or  vessels  preposterous,  for  what  would 
not  have  cost  you  ten  bolivars  of  collarwork  or  the  price  of  one 
ping  pang,  just  a  lilt,  let  us  trillt,  of  the  oldest  song  in  the  wooed 
woodworld,  (two-we!  to-one!),  accompanied  by  a  plain  gold 
band!  Hail!  Hail!  Highbosomheaving  Missmisstress  Morna  of 
the  allsweetheartening  bridemuredemeanour!  Her  eye's  so  glad- 
some we'll  all  take  shares  in  the  groom! 

Sniffer  of  carrion,  premature  gravedigger,  seeker  of  the  nest 
of  evil  in  the  bosom  of  a  good  word,  you,  who  sleep  at  our  vigil 
and  fast  for  our  feast,  you  with  your  dislocated  reason,  have 
cutely  foretold,  a  jophet  in  your  own  absence,  by  blind  poring 
upon  your  many  scalds  and  burns  and  blisters,  impetiginous  sore 
and  pustules,  by  the  auspices  of  that  raven  cloud,  your  shade,  and 
by  the  auguries  of  rooks  in  parlament,  death  with  every  disaster, 
the  dynamitisation  of  colleagues,  the  reducing  of  records  to 
ashes,  the  levelling  of  all  customs  by  blazes,  the  return  of  a  lot 

189 


of  sweetempered  gunpowdered  didst  unto  dudst  but  it  never 
stphruck  your  mudhead's  obtundity  (O  hell,  here  comes  our 
funeral!  O  pest,  Fll  miss  the  post!)  that  the  more  carrots  you 
chop,  the  more  turnips  you  slit,  the  more  murphies  you  peel,  the 
more  onions  you  cry  over,  the  more  bullbeef  you  butch,  the 
more  mutton  you  crackerhack,  the  more  potherbs  you  pound, 
the  fiercer  the  fire  and  the  longer  your  spoon  and  the  harder  you 
gruel  with  more  grease  to  your  elbow  the  merrier  fumes  your 
new  Irish  stew. 

O,  by  the  way,  yes,  another  thing  occurs  to  me.  You  let  me  tell 
you,  with  the  utmost  politeness,  were  very  ordinarily  designed, 
your  birthwrong  was,  to  fall  in  with  Plan,  as  our  nationals 
should,  as  all  nationists  must,  and  do  a  certain  office  (what,  I  will 
not  tell  you)  in  a  certain  holy  office  (nor  will  I  say  where)  during 
certain  agonising  office  hours  (a  clerical  party  all  to  yourself)  from 
such  a  year  to  such  an  hour  on  such  and  such  a  date  at  so  and 
so  much  a  week  pro  anno  (Guinnesses,  may  I  remind,  were  just 
agulp  for  you,  failing  in  which  you  might  have  taken  the  scales  off 
boilers  like  any  boskop  of  Yorek)  and  do  your  little  thruppenny 
bit  and  thus  earn  from  the  nation  true  thanks,  right  here  in  our 
place  of  burden,  your  bourne  of  travail  and  ville  of  tares,  where 
after  a  divine's  prodigence  you  drew  the  first  watergasp  in  your 
life,  from  the  crib  where  you  once  was  bit  to  the  crypt  you'll 
be  twice  as  shy  of,  same  as  we,  long  of  us,  alone  with  the  colt 
in  the  curner,  where  you  were  as  popular  as  an  armenial  with 
the  faithful,  and  you  set  fire  to  my  tailcoat  when  I  hold  the 
paraffin  smoker  under  yours  (I  hope  that  chimney's  clear)  but, 
slackly  shirking  both  your  bullet  and  your  billet,  you  beat  it 
backwards  like  Boulanger  from  Galway  (but  he  combed  the  grass 
against  his  stride)  to  sing  us  a  song  of  alibi,  (the  cuthone  call  over 
the  greybounding  slowrolling  amplyheaving  metamorphoseous 
that  oozy  rocks  parapangle  their  preposters  with)  nomad,  mooner 
by  lamplight,  antinos,  shemming  amid  everyone's  repressed 
laughter  to  conceal  your  scatchophily  by  mating,  like  a  thorough- 
paste  prosodite,  masculine  monosyllables  of  die  same  numerical 
mus,  an  Irish  emigrant  the  wrong  way  out,  sitting  on  your  crooked 

190 


sixpenny  stile,  an  unfrillfrocked  quackfriar,  you  (will  you  for 
the  laugh  of  Scheekspair  just  help  mine  with  the  epithet?)  semi- 
semitic  serendipitist,  you  (thanks,  I  think  that  describes  you) 
Europasianised  Afferyank! 

Shall  we  follow  each  others  a  steplonger,  drowner  of  daggers, 
whiles  our  liege,  tilyet  a  stranger  in  the  frontyard  of  his  happi- 
ness, is  taking,  (heal  helper!  one  gob,  one  gap,  one  gulp  and 
gorger  of  all !)  his  refreshment? 

There  grew  up  beside  you,  amid  our  orisons  of  the  speediest 
in  Novena  Lodge,  Novara  Avenue,  in  Patripodium-am-Bummel, 
oaf,  outofwork,  one  remove  from  an  unwashed  savage,  on  his 
keeping  and  in  yours,  (I  pose  you  know  why  possum  hides  is 
cause  he  haint  the  nogumtreeumption)  that  other,  Immaculatus, 
from  head  to  foot,  sir,  that  pure  one,  Altrues  of  other  times, 
he  who  was  well  known  to  celestine  circles  before  he  sped 
aloft,  our  handsome  young  spiritual  physician  that  was  to  be, 
seducing  every  sense  to  selfwilling  celebesty,  the  most  winning 
counterfeuille  on  our  incomeshare  lotetree,  a  chum  of  the 
angelets,  a  youth  those  reporters  so  pettitily  wanted  as  game- 
fellow  that  they  asked  his  mother  for  ittle  earps  brupper  to 
let  him  tome  to  Tindertarten,  pease,  and  bing  his  scooter 
'long  and  'tend  they  were  all  real  brothers  in  the  big  justright 
home  where  Dodd  lives,  just  to  teddyfy  the  life  out  of  him 
and  pat  and  pass  him  one  with  other  like  musk  from  hand  to 
hand,  that  mothersmothered  model,  that  goodlooker  with  not 
a  flaw  whose  spiritual  toilettes  were  the  talk  of  half  the  town,  for 
sunset  wear  and  nightfallen  use  and  daybroken  donning  and 
nooncheon  showing  and  the  very  thing  for  teasetime,  but  him 
you  laid  low  with  one  hand  one  fine  May  morning  in  the  Meddle 
of  your  Might,  your  bosom  foe,  because  he  mussed  your  speller 
on  you  or  because  he  cut  a  pretty  figure  in  the  focus  of  your 
frontispecs  (not  one  did  you  slay,  no,  but  a  continent!)  to  find 
out  how  his  innards  worked ! 

Ever  read  of  that  greatgrand  landfather  of  our  visionbuilders, 
Baaboo,  the  bourgeoismeister,  who  thought  to  touch  both  him- 
mels  at  the  punt  of  his  risen  stiffstaff  and  how  wishywashy  sank 

191 


the  waters  of  his  thought?  Ever  thought  of  that  hereticalist  Marcon 
and  the  two  scissymaidies  and  how  bulkily  he  shat  the  Ructions 
gunorrhal?  Ever  hear  of  that  foxy,  that  lupo  and  that  monkax 
and  the  virgin  heir  of  the  Morrisons,  eh,  blethering  ape? 

Malingerer  in  luxury,  collector  general,  what  has  Your  Low- 
ness  done  in  the  mealtime  with  all  the  hamilkcars  of  cooked 
vegetables,  the  hatfuls  of  stewed  fruit,  the  suitcases  of  coddled 
ales,  the  Parish  funds,  me  schamer,  man,  that  you  kittycoaxed  so 
flexibly  out  of  charitable  butteries  by  yowling  heavy  with  a 
hollow  voice  drop  of  your  horrible  awful  poverty  of  mind  so  as 
you  couldn't  even  pledge  a  crown  of  Thome's  to  pawn  a  coat 
off  Trevi's  and  as  how  you  was  bad  no  end,  so  you  was,  so  whelp 
you  Sinner  Pitre  and  Sinner  Poule,  with  the  chicken's  gape  and 
pas  mal  de  siecle,  which,  by  the  by,  Reynaldo,  is  the  ordinary 
emetic  French  for  grenadier's  drip.  To  let  you  have  your  plank 
and  your  bonewash  (O  the  hastroubles  you  lost!),  to  give  you 
your  pound  of  platinum  and  a  thousand  thongs  a  year  (O,  you 
were  excruciated,  in  honour  bound  to  the  cross  of  your  own 
cruelfiction !)  to  let  you  have  your  Sarday  spree  and  holinight  sleep 
(fame  would  come  to  you  twixt  a  sleep  and  a  wake)  and  leave  to 
lie  till  Paraskivee  and  the  cockcock  crows  for  Danmark.  (O 
Jonathan,  your  estomach!)  The  simian  has  no  sentiment  secre- 
tions but  weep  cataracts  for  all  me.  Pain  the  Shamman!  Oft  in 
the  smelly  night  will  they  wallow  for  a  clutch  of  the  famished 
hand,  I  say,  them  bearded  jezabelles  you  hired  to  rob  you,  while 
on  your  sodden  straw  impolitely  you  encored  (Airish  and  naw- 
boggaleesh!)  those  hornmade  ivory  dreams  you  reved  of  the 
Ruth  you  called  your  companionate,  a  beauty  from  the  bible,  of 
the  flushpots  of  Euston  and  the  hanging  garments  of  Maryle- 
bone.  But  the  dormer  moonshee  smiled  selene  and  the  light- 
throwers  knickered:  who's  whinging  we?  Comport  yourself, 
you  inconsistency!  Where  is  that  little  alimony  nestegg  against 
our  predictable  rainy  day?  Is  it  not  the  fact  (gainsay  me,  cake- 
eater!)  that,  while  whistlewhirling  your  crazy  elegies  around 
Templetombmount  joyntstone,  (let  him  pass,  pleasegood- 
jesusalem,  in  a  bundle  of  straw,  he  was  balbettised  after  hay- 

192 


1 


making)  you  squandered  among  underlings  the  overload  of 
your  extravagance  and  made  a  Hottentot  of  dulpeners  crawsick 
with  your  crumbs?  Am  I  not  right?  Yes?  Yes?  Yes?  Holy  wax 
and  holifer!  Don't  tell  me,  Leon  of  the  fold,  that  you  are  not  a 
loanshark!  Look  up,  old  sooty,  be  advised  by  mux  and  take  your 
medicine.  The  Good  Doctor  mulled  it.  Mix  it  twice  before  re- 
pastures  and  powder  three  times  a  day.  It  does  marvels  for  your 
gripins  and  it's  fine  for  the  solitary  worm. 

Let  me  finish!  Just  a  little  judas  tonic,  my  ghem  of  all  jokes,  to 
make  you  go  green  in  the  gazer.  Do  you  hear  what  I'm  seeing, 
hammet?  And  remember  that  golden  silence  gives  consent,  Mr 
Anklegazer!  Cease  to  be  civil,  learn  to  say  nay!  Whisht!  Come 
here,  Herr  Studiosus,  till  I  tell  you  a  wig  in  your  ear.  We'll  do  a 
whisper  drive,  for  if  the  barishnyas  got  a  twitter  of  it  they'd  tell 
the  housetops  and  then  all  Cadbury  would  go  crackers.  Look! 
Do  you  see  your  dial  in  the  rockingglass?  Look  well !  Bend  down 
a  stigmy  till  I!  It's  secret!  Iggri,  I  say,  the  booseleers!  I  had  it 
from  Lamppost  Shawe.  And  he  had  it  from  the  Mullah.  And  Mull 
took  it  from  a  Bluecoat  schooler.  And  Gay  Socks  jot  it  from 
Potapheu's  wife.  And  RantipoU  tipped  the  wink  from  old  Mrs 
Tinbullet.  And  as  for  she  was  confussed  by  pro-Brother  Thaco- 
licus.  And  the  good  brother  feels  he  would  need  to  defecate 
you.  And  the  Flimsy  Follettes  are  simply  beside  each  other. 
And  Kelly,  Kenny  and  Keogh  are  up  up  and  in  arms.  That  a 
cross  may  crush  me  if  I  refuse  to  believe  in  it.  That  I  may  rock 
anchor  through  the  ages  if  I  hope  it's  not  true.  That  the  host 
may  choke  me  if  I  beneighbour  you  without  my  charity!  Sh! 
Shem,  you  are.  Sh!  You  are  mad! 

He  points  the  deathbone  and  the  quick  are  still.  Insomnia^ 
somnia  somniorum,  Awmawm. 

MERCIUS  (of  hisself):  Domine  vopiscus!  My  fault,  his  fault, 
a  kingship  through  a  fault!  Pariah,  cannibal  Cain,  I  who  oathily 
forswore  the  womb  that  bore  you  and  the  paps  I  sometimes 
sucked,  you  who  ever  since  have  been  one  black  mass  of  jigs  and 
jimjams,  haunted  by  a  convulsionary  sense  of  not  having  been 
or  being  all  that  I  might  have  been  or  you  meant  to  becoming, 

193 


bewailing  like  a  man  that  innocence  which  I  could  not  defend 
like  a  woman,  lo,  you  there,  Cathmon-Carbery,  and  thank  Movies 
from  the  innermost  depths  of  my  still  attrite  heart,  Wherein 
the  days  of  youyouth  are  evermixed  mimine,  now  ere  the  comp- 
line hour  of  being  alone  athands  itself  and  a  puff  or  so  before 
we  yield  our  spiritus  to  the  wind,  for  (though  that  royal  one 
has  not  yet  drunk  a  gouttelette  from  his  consummation  and  the 
flowerpot  on  the  pole,  the  spaniel  pack  and  their  quarry,  retainers 
and  the  public  house  proprietor  have  not  budged  a  millimetre 
and  all  that  has  been  done  has  yet  to  be  done  and  done  again, 
when's  day's  woe,  and  lo,  you're  doomed,  joy  day  dawns  and, 
la,  you  dominate)  it  is  to  you,  firstborn  and  firstfruit  of  woe,  to 
me,  branded  sheep,  pick  of  the  wasterpaperbaskel,  by  the 
tremours  of  Thundery  and  Ulerin's  dogstar,  you  alone,  wind- 
blasted  tree  of  the  knowledge  of  beautiful  andevil,  ay,  clothed 
upon  with  the  metuor  and  shimmering  like  the  horescens,  astro- 
glodynamonologos,  the  child  of  Nilfit's  father,  blzb,  to  me 
unseen  blusher  in  an  obscene  coalhole,  the  cubilibum  of  your 
secret  sigh,  dweller  in  the  downandoutermost  where  voice  only 
of  the  dead  may  come,  because  ye  left  from  me,  because  ye 
laughed  on  me,  because,  O  me  lonly  son,  ye  are  forgetting  me!, 
that  our  turfbrown  mummy  is  acoming,  alpilla,  beltilla,  ciltilla, 
deltilla,  running  with  her  tidings,  old  the  news  of  the  great  big 
world,  sonnies  had  a  scrap,  woewoewoe!  bab's  baby  walks  at 
seven  months,  waywayway!  bride  leaves  her  raid  at  Punchestime, 
stud  stoned  before  a  racecourseful,  two  belles  that  make  the 
one  appeal,  dry  yanks  will  visit  old  sod,  and  fourtiered  skirts 
are  up,  mesdames,  while  Parimiknie  wears  popular  short  legs, 
and  twelve  hows  to  mix  a  tipsy  wake,  did  ye  hear,  colt  Cooney? 
did  ye  ever,  filly  Fortescue?  with  a  beck,  with  a  spring,  all  her 
riilringlets  shaking,  rocks  drops  in  her  tachie,  tramtokens  in 
her  hair,  all  waived  to  a  point  and  then  all  inuendation,  little 
oldfashioned  mummy,  little  wonderful  mummy,  ducking  under 
bridges,  bellhopping  the  weirs,  dodging  by  a  bit  of  bog,  rapid- 
shooting  round  the  bends,  by  Tallaght's  green  hills  and  the 
pools  of  the  phooka  and  a  place  they  call  it  Blessington  and 

194 


I 


slipping  sly  by  Sallynoggin,  as  happy  as  the  day  is  wet,  bab- 
bling, bubbling,  chattering  to  herself,  deloothering  the  fields  on 
their  elbows  leaning  with  the  sloothering  slide  of  her,  giddy- 
gaddy,  grannyma,  gossipaceous  Anna  Livia. 

He  lifts  the  lifewand  and  the  dumb  speak. 

—  Quoiquoiquoiquoiquoiquoiquoiq! 


195 


o 

tell  me  all  about 
Anna  Li  via!  I  want  to  hear  all 
about  Anna  Livia.  Well,  you  know  Anna  Livia?  Yes,  of  course, 
we  all  know  Anna  Livia.  Tell  me  all.  Tell  me  now.  You'll  die 
when  you  hear.  Well,  you  know,  when  the  old  cheb  went  futt 
and  did  what  you  know.  Yes,  I  know,  go  on.  Wash  quit  and 
don't  be  dabbling.  Tuck  up  your  sleeves  and  loosen  your  talk- 
tapes.  And  don't  butt  me  —  hike!  —  when  you  bend.  Or  what- 
ever it  was  they  threed  to  make  out  he  thried  to  two  in  the 
Fiendish  park.  He's  an  awful  old  reppe.  Look  at  the  shirt  of  him ! 
Look  at  the  dirt  of  it!  He  has  all  my  water  black  on  me.  And  it 
steeping  and  stuping  since  this  time  last  wik.  How  many  goes 
is  it  I  wonder  I  washed  it.'^  I  know  by  heart  the  places  he  likes  to 
saale,  duddurty  devil!  Scorching  my  hand  and  starving  my  fa- 
mine to  make  his  private  linen  public.  Wallop  it  well  with  your 
battle  and  clean  it.  My  wrists  are  wrusty  rubbing  the  mouldaw 
stains.  And  the  dneepers  of  wet  and  the  gangres  of  sin  in  it!  What 
was  it  he  did  a  tail  at  all  on  Animal  Sendai.'^  And  how  long  was 
he  under  loch  and  neagh.'^  It  was  put  in  the  newses  what  he  did, 
nicies  and  priers,  the  King  fierceas  Humphrey,  with  illysus  dis- 
tilling, exploits  and  all.  But  toms  will  till.  I  know  he  well.  Temp 
untamed  will  hist  for  no  man.  As  you  spring  so  shall  you  neap. 
O,  the  roughty  old  rappe!  Minxing  marrage  and  making  loof. 

196 


Reeve  Gootch  was  right  and  Reeve  Drughad  was  sinistrous !  And 
the  cut  of  him!  And  the  strut  of  him!  How  he  used  to  hold  his 
head  as  high  as  a  howeth,  the  famous  eld  duke  alien,  with  a  hump 
of  grandeur  on  him  like  a  walking  wiesel  rat.  And  his  derry's 
own  drawl  and  his  corksown  blather  and  his  doubling  stutter 
and  his  gullaway  swank.  Ask  Lictor  Hackett  or  Lector  Reade 
of  Garda  Growley  or  the  Boy  with  the  Billyclub.  How  elster  is 
he  a  called  at  all?  Qu'appelle.^  Huges  Caput  Earlyfouler.  Or 
where  was  he  born  or  how  was  he  found.^  Urgothland,  Tvistown 
on  the  Kattekat?  New  Hunshire,  Concord  on  the  Merrimake? 
Who  blocksmitt  her  saft  anvil  or  yelled  lep  to  her  pail.'^  Was  her 
banns  never  loosened  in  Adam  and  Eve's  or  were  him  and  her 
but  captain  spliced.^  For  mine  ether  duck  I  thee  drake.  And  by 
my  wildgaze  I  thee  gander.  Flowey  and  Mount  on  the  brink  of 
time  makes  wishes  and  fears  for  a  happy  isthmass.  She  can  show 
all  her  lines,  with  love,  license  to  play.  And  if  they  don't  remarry 
that  hook  and  eye  may!  O,  passmore  that  and  oxus  another!  Don 
Dom  Dombdomb  and  his  wee  follyo!  Was  his  help  inshored  in 
the  Stork  and  Pelican  against  bungelars,  flu  and  third  risk  par- 
ties.'^ I  heard  he  dug  good  tin  with  his  doll^  delvan  first  and  duvlin 
after^  when  he  raped  her  home,  Sabrine  asthore,  in  a  parakeet's 
cage,  by  dredgerous  lands  and  devious  delts,  playing  catched  and 
mythed  with  the  gleam  of  her  shadda,  (if  a  flic  had  been  there  to 
pop  up  and  pepper  him!)  past  auld  min's  manse  and  Maisons 
Allfou  and  the  rest  of  incurables  and  the  last  of  immurables,  the 
quaggy  waag  for  stumbling.  Who  sold  you  that  jackalantern's 
tale.^  Pemmican's  pasty  pie!  Not  a  grasshoop  to  ring  her,  not  an 
antsgrain  of  ore.  In  a  gabbard  he  barqued  it,  the  boat  of  life, 
from  the  harbourless  Ivernikan  Okean,  till  he  spied  the  loom  of 
his  landfall  and  he  loosed  two  croakers  from  under  his  tilt,  the 
gran  Phenician  rover.  By  the  smell  of  her  kelp  they  made  the 
pigeonhouse.  Like  fun  they  did!  But  where  was  Himself,  the 
timoneer.'^  That  marchantman  he  suivied  their  scutties  right  over 
the  wash,  his  cameleer's  burnous  breezing  up  on  him,  till  with 
his  runagate  bowmpriss  he  roade  and  borst  her  bar.  Pilcomayo! 
Suchcaughtawan !  And  the  whale's  away  with  the  grayling!  Tune 

197 


your  pipes  and  fall  ahumming,  you  born  ijypt,  and  you're  no- 
thing short  of  one!  Well,  ptellomey  soon  and  curb  your  escumo. 
When  they  saw  him  shoot  swift  up  her  sheba  sheath,  like  any 
gay  lord  Salomon,  her  bulls  they  were  ruhring,  surfed  with 
spree.  Boyarka  buah!  Boyana  bueh!  He  erned  his  lille  Bunbath 
hard,  our  staly  bred,  the  trader.  He  did.  Look  at  here.  In  this  wet 
of  his  prow.  Don't  you  know  he  was  kaldt  a  bairn  of  the  brine, 
Wasserbourne  the  waterbaby?  Havemmarea,  so  he  was!  H.C.E. 
has  a  codfisck  ee.  Shyr  she's  nearly  as  badher  as  him  herself. 
Who?  Anna  Li  via.''  Ay,  Anna  Li  via.  Do  you  know  she  was  call- 
ing bakvandets  sals  from  all  around,  nyumba  noo,  chamba  choo, 
to  go  in  till  him,  her  erring  cheef,  and  tickle  the  pontiff  aisy-oisy? 
She  was?  Gota  pot!  Yssel  that  the  limmat?  As  El  Negro  winced 
when  he  wonced  in  La  Plate.  O,  tell  me  all  I  want  to  hear,  how 
loft  she  was  lift  a  laddery  dextro !  A  coney  wink  after  the  bunting 
fell.  Letting  on  she  didn't  care,  sina  feza,  me  absantee,  him  man 
in  passession,  the  proxenete!  Proxenete  and  phwhat  is  phthat? 
Emme  for  your  reussischer  Honddu  jarkon!  Tell  us  in  franca 
langua.  And  call  a  spate  a  spate.  Did  they  never  sharee  you  ebro 
at  skol,  you  antiabecedarian?  It's  just  the  same  as  if  I  was  to  go 
par  examplum  now  in  conservancy's  cause  out  of  telekinesis  and 
proxenete  you.  For  coxyt  sake  and  is  that  what  she  is?  Botlettle 
I  thought  she'd  act  that  loa.  Didn't  you  spot  her  in  her  windaug, 
wubbling  up  on  an  osiery  chair,  with  a  meusic  before  her  all 
cunniform  letters,  pretending  to  ribble  a  reedy  derg  on  a  fiddle 
she  bogans  without  a  band  on?  Sure  she  can't  fiddan  a  dee,  with 
bow  or  abandon!  Sure,  she  can't!  Tista  suck.  Well,  I  never  now 
heard  the  like  of  that !  Tell  me  moher.  Tell  me  moatst.  Well,  old 
Humber  was  as  glommen  as  grampus,  with  the  tares  at  his  thor 
and  the  buboes  for  ages  and  neither  bowman  nor  shot  abroad  and 
bales  allbrant  on  the  crests  of  rockies  and  nera  lamp  in  kitchen  or 
church  and  giant's  holes  in  Grafton's  causeway  and  deathcap 
mushrooms  round  Funglus  grave  and  the  great  tribune's  barrow 
all  darnels  occumule,  sittang  sambre  on  his  sett,  drammen  and 
drommen,  usking  queasy  quizzers  of  his  ruful  continence,  his 
childlinen  scarf  to  encourage  his  obsequies  where  he'd  check  their 

198 


debths  in  that  mormon's  thames,  be  questing  and  handsetl,  hop, 
step  and  a  deepend,  with  his  berths  in  their  toiling  moil,  his  swal- 
lower  open  from  swolf  to  fore  and  the  snipes  of  the  gutter  pecking 
his  crocs,  hungerstriking  all  alone  and  holding  doomsdag  over 
hunselv,  dreeing  his  weird,  with  his  dander  up,  and  his  fringe 
combed  over  his  eygs  and  droming  on  loft  till  the  sight  of  the 
sternes,  after  zwarthy  kowse  and  weedy  broeks  and  the  tits  of 
buddy  and  the  loits  of  pest  and  to  peer  was  Parish  worth  thette 
mess.  You'd  think  all  was  dodo  belonging  to  him  how  he  durmed 
adranse  in  durance  vaal.  He  had  been  belching  for  Severn  years. 
And  there  she  was,  Anna  Livia,  she  darent  catch  a  winkle  of 
sleep,  purling  around  like  a  chit  of  a  child,  Wendawanda,  a  finger- 
thick,  in  a  Lapsummer  skirt  and  damazon  cheeks,  for  to  ishim 
bonzour  to  her  dear  dubber  Dan.  With  neuphraties  and  sault 
from  his  maggias.  And  an  odd  time  she'd  cook  him  up  blooms 
of  fisk  and  lay  to  his  heartsfoot  her  meddery  eygs,  yayis,  and 
staynish  beacons  on  toasc  and  a  cupenhave  so  weeshywashy  of 
Greenland's  tay  or  a  dzoupgan  of  Kaffue  mokau  an  sable  or 
Sikiang  sukry  or  his  ale  of  ferns  in  trueart  pewter  and  a  shin- 
kobread  (hamjambo,  bana.'^)  for  to  plaise  that  man  hog  stay  his 
stomicker  till  her  pyrraknees  shrunk  to  nutmeg  graters  while  her 
togglejoints  shuck  with  goyt  and  as  rash  as  she'd  russ  with  her 
peakload  of  vivers  up  on  her  sieve  (metauwero  rage  it  swales  and 
rieses)  my  hardey  Hek  he'd  kast  them  frome  him,  with  a  stour 
of  scorn,  as  much  as  to  say  you  sow  and  you  sozh,  and  if  he  didn't 
peg  the  platteau  on  her  tawe,  believe  you  me,  she  was  safe 
enough.  And  then  she'd  esk  to  vistule  a  hymn.  The  Heart  Bowed 
Down  or  The  Rakes  of  Mallow  or  Chelli  Michele's  La  Calumnia  e 
un  Vermicelli  or  a  balfy  bit  ov  old  Jo  Robidson,  Sucho  fuffing  a 
fifeing  'twould  cut  you  in  two!  She'd  bate  the  hen  that  crowed 
on  the  turrace  of  Babbel.  What  harm  if  she  knew  how  to  cockle 
her  mouth !  And  not  a  mag  out  of  Hum  no  more  than  out  of  the 
mangle  weight.  Is  that  a  faith.^  That's  the  fact.  Then  riding  the 
ricka  and  roya  romanche^  Annona,  gebroren  aroostokrat  Nivia, 
dochter  of  Sense  and  Art,  with  Sparks'  pirryphlickathims  funkl- 
ing  her  fan,  anner  frostivying  tresses  dasht  with  virevlies, — 

199 


while  the  prom  beauties  sreeked  nith  their  bearers'  skins !  —  in 
a  period  gown  of  changeable  jade  that  would  robe  the  wood  of 
two  cardinals*  chairs  and  crush  poor  Cullen  and  smother  Mac- 
Cabe.  O  blazerskate!  Theirs  porpor  patches!  And  brahming  to 
him  down  the  feedchute,  with  her  femtyfyx  kinds  of  fondling 
endings,  the  poother  rambling  off  her  nose:  Vuggyharney^ 
Wickerymandy!  Hello^  ducky ^  please  dont  die!  Do  you  know 
what  she  started  cheeping  after,  with  a  choicey  voicey  like  water- 
glucks  or  Madame  Delba  to  Romeoreszk?  You'll  never  guess. 
Tell  me.  Tell  me.  Phoebe^  dearest^  tell^  0  tell  me  and  /  loved  you 
better  nor  you  knew.  And  letting  on  boon  var  daft  about  the  warbly 
sangs  from  over  holmen:  High  hellskirt  saw  ladies  hensmoker  lily- 
hung  pigger:  and  soay  and  soan  and  so  firth  and  so  forth  in  a  tone 
sonora  and  Oom  Bothar  below  like  Bheri-Bheri  in  his  sandy 
cloak,  so  umvolosy,  as  deaf  as  a  yawn,  the  stult!  Go  away!  Poor 
deef  old  deary!  Yare  only  teasing!  Anna  Liv.'^  As  chalk  is  my 
judge!  And  didn't  she  up  in  sorgues  and  go  and  trot  doon  and 
stand  in  her  douro,  puffing  her  old  dudheen,  and  every  shirvant 
siligirl  or  wensum  farmerette  walking  the  pilend  roads,  Sawy, 
Fundally,  Daery  or  Maery,  Milucre,  Awny  or  Graw,  usedn't  she 
make  her  a  simp  or  sign  to  slip  inside  by  the  sullyport.'^  You  don't 
say,  the  sillypost?  Bedouix  but  I  do !  Calling  them  in,  one  by  one 
(To  Blockbeddum  here!  Here  the  Shoebenacaddie !)  and  legging 
a  jig  or  so  on  the  sihl  to  show  them  how  to  shake  their  benders 
and  the  dainty  how  to  bring  to  mind  the  gladdest  garments  out 
of  sight  and  all  the  way  of  a  maid  with  a  man  and  making  a  sort 
of  a  cackling  noise  like  two  and  a  penny  or  half  a  crown  and  hold- 
ing up  a  silliver  shiner.  Lordy,  lordy,  did  she  so?  Well,  of  all  the 
ones  ever  I  heard!  Throwing  all  the  neiss  little  whores  in  the 
world  at  him!  To  inny  captured  wench  you  wish  of  no  matter 
what  sex  of  pleissful  ways  two  adda  tammar  a  lizzy  a  lossie  to 
hug  and  hab  haven  in  Humpy's  apron ! 

And  what  was  the  wyerye  rima  she  made!  Odet!  Odet!  Tell 
me  the  trent  of  it  while  I'm  lathering  hail  out  of  Denis  Florence 
MacCarthy's  combies.  Rise  it,  flut  ye,  pian  piena!  I'm  dying 
down  off  my  iodine  feet  until  I  lerryn  Anna  Livia's  cushingloo, 

200 


that  was  writ  by  one  and  rede  by  two  and  trouved  by  a  poule  in 
