for  your  consolering,  lost  Dave  the  Dancekerl,  a  squamous  run- 
away and  a  dear  old  man  pal  of  mine  too.  He  will  arrive  inces- 
santly in  the  fraction  of  a  crust,  who,  could  he  quit  doubling  and 
stop  tippling,  he  would  be  the  unicorn  of  his  kind.  He's  the 
mightiest  penumbrella  I  ever  flourished  on  behond  the  shadow 
of  a  post!  Be  sure  and  link  him,  me  O  treasauro,  as  often  as  you 
learn  provided  there's  nothing  between  you  but  a  plain  deal 
table  only  don't  encourage  him  to  cry  lessontimes  over  Lepers- 
town.  But  ..soft!  Can't  be.'^  Do  mailstanes  mumble.'^  Lumtum 
lumtum!  Now!  The  froubadour!  I  fremble!  Talk  of  wolf  in  a 
stomach  by  all  that's  verminous!  Eccolo  me!  The  return  of 
th'athlate!  Who  can  secede  to  his  success!  Isn't  Jaunstown, 
Ousterrike,  the  small  place  after  all.'*  I  knew  I  smelt  the  garlic 
leek!  Why,  bless  me  swits,  here  he  its,  darling  Dave,  like 
the  catoninelives  just  in  time  as  if  he  fell  out  of  space,  all 
draped  in  mufti,  coming  home  to  mourn  mountains  from  his 
old  continence  and  not  on  one  foot  either  or  on  two  feet 
aether  but  on  quinquisecular  cycles  after  his  French  evolution 
and  a  blindfold  passage  by  the  4.32  with  the  pork's  pate  in  his 
suicide  paw  and  the  gulls  laughing  lime  on  his  natural  skunk, 

462 


I 


blushing  like  Pat's  pig,  begob!  He's  not  too  timtom  well  ashamed 
to  carry  out  onaglibtograbakelly  in  his  showman's  sinister  the 
testymonicals  he  gave  his  twenty  annis  orf,  showing  the  three 
white  feathers,  as  a  home  cured  emigrant  in  Paddyouare  far  be- 
low on  our  sealevel.  Bearer  may  leave  the  church,  signed,  Figura 
Porca,  Lictor  Magnaffica.  He's  the  sneaking  likeness  of  us,  faith, 
me  altar's  ego  in  miniature  and  every  Auxonian  aimer's  ace  as 
nasal  a  Romeo  as  I  am,  for  ever  cracking  quips  on  himself,  that 
merry,  the  jeenjakes,  he'd  soon  arise  mother's  roses  mid  bedew- 
ing tears  under  those  wild  wet  lashes  onto  anny  living  girl's 
laftercheeks.  That's  his  little  veiniality.  And  his  unpeppeppedi- 
ment.  He  has  novel  ideas  I  know  and  he's  a  jarry  queer  fish  be- 
times, I  grant  you,  and  cantanberous,  the  poisoner  of  his  word, 
but  lice  and  all  and  semicoloured  stainedglasses,  I'm  enormously 
full  of  that  foreigner,  I'll  say  I  am !  Got  by  the  one  goat,  suckled 
by  the  same  nanna,  one  twitch,  one  nature  makes  us  oldworld 
kin.  We're  as  thick  and  thin  now  as  two  tubular  jawballs.  I  hate 
him  about  his  patent  henesy,  plasfh  it,  yet  am  I  amorist.  I  love 
him.  I  love  his  old  portugal's  nose.  There's  the  nasturtium  for 
ye  now  that  saved  manny  a  poor  sinker  from  water  on  the  grave. 
The  diasporation  of  all  pirates  and  quinconcentrum  of  a  fake  like 
Basilius  O'Cormacan  MacArty.'^  To  camiflag  he  turned  his  shirt. 
Isn't  he  after  borrowing  all  before  him,  making  friends  with 
everybody  red  in  Rossya,  white  in  Alba  and  touching  every  dis- 
tinguished Ourishman  he  could  ever  distinguish  before  or  be- 
hind from  a  Yourishman  for  the  customary  halp  of  a  crown  and 
peace.^  He  is  looking  aged  with  his  pebbled  eyes,  and  johnnythin 
too,  from  livicking  on  pidgins'  ifs  with  puffins'  ands,  he's  been 
slanderising  himself,  but  I  pass  no  remark.  Hope  he  hasn't  the 
cholera.  Give  him  an  eyot  in  the  farout.  Moseses  and  Noasies, 
how  are  you.'^  He'd  be  as  snug  as  Columbsisle  Jonas  wrocked  in 
the  belly  of  the  whaves,  as  quotad  before.  Bravo,  senior  chief! 
Famose!  Sure  there's  nobody  else  in  touch  anysides  to  hold  a 
chef's  cankle  to  the  darling  at  all  for  sheer  dare  with  that  prison- 
potstill  of  Spanish  breans  on  him  like  the  knave  of  trifles!  A  jolly- 
tan  fine  demented  brick  and  the  prince  of  goodfilips!  Dave 

463 


knows  I  have  the  highest  of  respect  of  annyone  in  my  oweand 
smooth  way  for  that  intellectual  debtor  (Obbligado!)  Mushure 
David  R.  Crozier.  And  we're  the  closest  of  chems.  Mark  my  use 
of  you,  cog!  Take  notice  how  I  yemploy,  crib!  Be  ware  as  you, 
I  foil,  coppy!  It's  a  pity  he  can't  see  it  for  I'm  terribly  nice  about 
him.  Canwyll  y  Cymry,  the  marmade's  flamme!  A  leal  of  the 
O'Looniys,  a  Brazel  aboo!  The  most  omportent  man!  Shervos/ 
Ho,  be  the  holy  snakes,  someone  has  shaved  his  rough  diamond 
skull  for  him  as  clean  as  Nuntius'  piedish!  The  burnt  out 
mesh  and  the  matting  and  all!  Thunderweather,  khyber  schinker 
escapa  sansa  pagar!  He's  the  spatton  spit,  so  he  is,  scaly  skin 
and  all,  with  his  blackguarded  eye  and  the  goatsbeard  in 
his  buttinghole  of  Shemuel  Tulliver,  me  grandsourd,  the  old 
cruxader,  when  he  off  with  his  paudeen!  That  was  to  let  the 
crowd  of  the  Flu  Flux  Fans  behind  him  see  me  proper.  Ah, 
he's  very  thoughtful  and  sympatrico  that  way  is  Brother  Intelli- 
gentius,  when  he's  not  absintheminded,  with  his  Paris  addresse ! 
He  is,  really.  Holdhard  till  you'll  ear  him  clicking  his  bull's 
bones!  Some  toad  klakkin!  You're  welcome  back,  Wilkins,  to 
red  berries  in  the  frost!  And  here's  the  butter  exchange  to  pfeife 
and  dramn  ye  with  a  bawlful  of  the  Moulsaybaysse  and  yunker 
doodler  wanked  to  wall  awriting  off  his  phoney.  I'm  tired  hair- 
ing of  you.  Hat  yourself!  Give  us  your  dyed  dextremity  here, 
frother,  the  Claddagh  clasp!  I  met  with  dapper  dandy  and  he 
shocked  me  big  the  hamd.  Where's  your  watch  keeper?  You've 
seen  all  sorts  in  shapes  and  sizes,  marauding  about  the  moppa- 
mound.  How's  the  cock  and  the  bullfight.'^  And  old  Auster  and 
Hungrig?  And  the  Beer  and  Belly  and  the  Boot  and  Ball?  Not 
forgetting  the  oils  of  greas  under  that  turkey  in  julep  and  Father 
Freeshots  Feilbogen  in  his  rockery  garden  with  the  costard?  And 
did  you  meet  with  Peadhar  the  Grab  at  all?  And  did  you  call  on 
Tower  Geesyhus?  Was  Mona,  my  own  love,  no  bigger  than  she 
should  be,  making  up  to  you  in  her  bestbehaved  manor  when 
you  made  your  breastlaw  and  made  her,  tell  me?  And  did  you 
like  the  landskip  from  Lambay?  I'm  better  pleased  than  ten 
guidneys!  You  rejoice  me!  Faith,  I'm  proud  of  you,  french  davit! 

464 


I 


I 

I 


L 


You've  surpassed  yourself!  B_e  introduced  to  yes !  This  is  me  aunt 
Julia  Bride,  your  honour,  dying  to  have  you  languish  to  scan- 
dal  in  her  bosky  old  delltangle.  You  don't  reckoneyes  him?  He's 
Jackot  the  Horner  who  boxed  in  his  corner^  jilting  no  fewer  than 
three  female  bribes.  That's  his  penals.  ShervorumI  You  haven't 
seen  her  since  she  stepped  into  her  drawpfFs.  Come  on,  spinister,  ^<:2 
do  your  stuff!  Don't  be  shoy,  husbandmanvir !  Weih,  what's  on 
you,  Up  the  ahaOQiewaugh  I  She  has  plenty  of  woom  in  the 
ft^  smallclothes  for  the  bothsforus,  nephews  push!  Hatch  yourself 
well!  Enjomb yourselves  thurily!  Would  you  wait  biss  she  buds 
till  you  bite  on  her?  Embrace  her  bashfully  by  almeans  at  my 
frank  incensive  and  tell  her  in  your  semiological  agglutinative  yez,  c:r/^^ 
how  Idos  be  asking  after  her.  Let  us  be  holy  and  evil  and  let  her 
be  peace  on  the  bough.  Sure,  she  fell  in  line  with  our  tripertight 
V  photos  as  the  lyonised  mails  when  we  were  stablelads  together 
like  the  corks  again  brothers,  hungry  and  angry,  cavileer 
grace  by  roundhered  force,  or  like  boyrun  to  sibster,  me  and 
you,  shinners  true  and  pinchme,  our  tertius  quiddus,  that  never 
talked  or  listened.  Always  raving  how  we  had  the  wrinkles  of 
a  snailcharmer  and  the  slits  and  sniffers  of  a  fellow  that  fell  foul  u-c.  /pc\ 
of  the  county  de  Loona  and  the  mgattrap  of  the  fimj^egetam 
To  be  had  for  the  asking.  Have  a  hug!  Take  her  out  of  poor 
tuppeny  luck  before  she  goes  off  in  pure  treple  licquidance.  I'd 
give  three  shillings  a  pullet  to  the  canon  for  the  conjugation  to 
shadow  you  kissing  her  from  me  leberally  all  over  as  if  she  was  a 
crucifix.  It's  good  for  her  bilabials,  you  understand.  There's  no- 
thing like  the  mistletouch  for  finding  a  queen's  earring  false.  ?(\^ 
X^hink  chink.  As  the  curly  bard  said  after  kitchin  the  womn  in 
his  hym  to  the  hum  of  her  garments.  You  try  a  little  tich  to  the  ^<Q 
tissle  of  his  tail.  The  racist  to  the  racy,  rossy.  The  soil  is  for  the 
§£lf  alone.  Be  ownkind.  Be  kithkinish.  Be  bloodysibby.  Be  irish. 
Be  inish.  Be  offalia.  Be  hamlet.  Be  the  property  plot.  Be  Yorick 
and  Lankystare.  Be  cool.  Be  mackinamucks  of  yourselves.  Be  /  ■ 

finish.  No  martyr  where  the  preature  is  there's  no  plagues  like 
rome.  It  gives  up  the  gripes.  Watch  the  swans  way.  Take  your 
tiger  over  it.  The  leady  on  the  lake  and  the  convict  of  the  forest. 


Why,  they  might  be  Babau  and  Momie!  Yipyip!  To  pan!  To 
pan!  To  tinpinnypan.  All  folly  me  yap  to  Curlew!  Give  us  a  pin 
for  her  and  we'll  call  it  a  tossup.  Can  you  reverse  positions? 
Lets  have  a  fuchu  all  round,  courting  cousins !  Quuck,  the  duck 
of  a  woman  for  quack,  the  drake  of  a  man,  her  little  live  apples 
for  Leas  and  love  potients  for  Leos,  the  next  beast  king.  Put 
me  down  for  all  ringside  seats.  I  can  feel  you  being  corrupted. 
Recoil.  I  can  see  you  sprouting  scruples.  Get  back.  And  as 
he's  boiling  with  water  I'll  light  your  pyre.  Turn  about,  skeezy 
Sammy,  out  of  metaphor,  till  we  feel  are  you  still  tropeful 
of  popetry.  Told  you  so.  If  you  doubt  of  his  love  of  darearing 
his  feelings  you'll  very  much  hurt  for  mishmash  mastufractured 
on  europe  you  can  read  off  the  tail  of  his.  Rip  ripper  rippest  and 
jac  jac  jac.  Dwell  on  that,  my  hero  and  lander!  That's  the  side 
that  appeals  to  em,  the  wring  wrong  way  to  wright  woman.  Shuck 
her!  Let  him!  What  he's  good  for.  Shuck  her  more!  Let  him 
again!  All  she  wants!  Could  you  wheedle  a  staveling  encore  out 
of  your  imitationer's  jubalharp,  hey,  Mr  Jinglejoys.'*  Congrega- 
tional singing.  Rota  rota  ran  the  pagoda  con  dio  in  capo  ed  il  dia- 
volo  in  coda.  Many  a  diva  devoucha  saw  her  Dauber  Dan  at  the 
priesty  pagoda  Rota  ran.  Uck!  He's  so  sedulous  to  singe  always 
if  prumpted,  the  mirthprovoker !  Grunt  unto  us,  I  pray,  your  fore- 
boden  article  in  our  own  deas  dockandoilish  introducing  the 
death  of  Nelson  with  coloraturas !  Coraio,  fraf  And  I'll  string 
second  to  harmanize.  My  loaf  and  pottage  neaheaheahear  Ro- 
chelle.  With  your  dumpsey  diddely  dumpsey  die,  iiddeley  fa. 
Diavoloh!  Or  come  on,  schoolcolours,  and  we'll  scrap,  rug  and 
mat  and  then  be  as  chummy  as  two  bashed  spuds.  Bitrial  bay 
holmgang  or  betrayal  buy  jury.  Attaboy!  Fee  gate  has  Heenan 
hoity,  mind  uncle  Hare.^  What,  sir.'^  Poss,  myster.'^  Acheve!  Thou, 
thou!  What  say  ye.'^  Taurus  periculosusy  morbus  pedeiculosus. 
Miserere  mei  in  miseribilihus!  There's  uval  lavguage  for  you !  The 
tower  is  precluded,  the  mob's  in  her  petticoats;  Mr  R.  E.  Meehan 
is  in  misery  with  his  billyboots.  Begob,  there's  not  so  much 
green  in  his  Ireland's  eye!  Sweet  fellow  ovocal,  he  stones  out  of 
stune.  But  he  could  be  near  a  colonel  with  a  voice  like  that.  The 

466 


I 


bark  is  still  there  but  the  molars  are  gone.  The  misery  billyboots 
I  used  to  lend  him  before  we  split  and,  be  the  hole  in  the  year, 
they  were  laking  like  heaven's  reflexes.  But  I  told  him  make  your 
will  be  done  and  go  to  a  general  and  I'd  pray  confessions  for 
him.  Areesh!  Areesh!  And  Til  be  your  intrepider.  Ambras! 
Ruffle  her !  Bussing  was  before  the  blood  and  hissing  will  behind 
the  curtain.  Triss!  Did  you  note  that  worrid  expressionism  on 
his  megalogue.^  A  full  octavium  below  me!  And  did  you  hear 
his  browrings  rattlemaking  when  he  was  preaching  to  himself.'^ 
And,  whoa,!  do  you  twig  the  schamlooking  leaf  greeping  ghastly 
down  his  blousyfrock.'^  Our  national  umbloom!  Areesh!  He 
won't.  He's  shoy.  Those  worthies,  my  old  faher's  onkel  that 
was  garotted,  Caius  Cocoa  Codinhand,  that  I  lost  in  a  crowd, 
used  to  chop  that  tongue  of  his,  japlatin,  with  my  yuonkle's 
owlseller,  Woowoolfe  Woodenbeard,  that  went  stomebathred, 
in  the  Tower  of  Balbus,  as  brisk,  man,  as  I'd  scoff  up  muttan 
chepps  and  lobscouse.  But  it's  all  deafman's  duff  to  me, 
begob.  Sam  knows  miles  bettern  me  how  to  work  the 
miracle.  And  I  see  by  his  diarrhio  he's  dropping  the  stammer 
out  of  his  silenced  bladder  since  I  bonded  him  off  more  as  a 
friend  and  as  a  brother  to  try  and  grow  a  muff  and  canonise  his 
dead  feet  down  on  the  river  airy  by  thinking  himself  into  the 
fourth  dimension  and  place  the  ocean  between  his  and  ours, 
the  churchyard  in  the  cloister  of  the  depths,  after  he  was  capped 
out  of  beurlads  scoel  for  the  sin  against  the  past  participle  and 
earned  the  factitation  of  codding  chaplan  and  being  as  homely 
gauche  as  swift  B.A.A.  Who  gets  twickly  fullgets  twice  as  alle- 
manden  buskers.  But  the  whacker  his  word  the  weaker  our  ears 
for  auracles  who  paries  parses  orileys.  Illstarred  punster,  lipster- 
ing  cowknucks.  'Twas  the  quadra  sent  him  and  Trinity  too.  And 
he  can  cantab  as  chipper  as  any  oxon  ever  I  mood  with,  a  tiptoe 
singer!  He'll  prisckly  soon  hand  tune  your  Erin's  ear  for  you. 
p.p.  a  mimograph  at  a  time,  numan  bitter,  with  his  ancomartins 
to  read  the  road  roman  with  false  steps  ad  Pernicious  from 
rhearsilvar  ormolus  to  torquinions  superbers  while  I'm  far 
away  from  wherever  thou  art  serving  my  tallyhos  and  tuUying 

467 


my  hostilious  by  going  in  by  the  most  holy  recitatandas/j^j^jrfor 
my  varsatile  examinations  in  the  ologies,  to  be  a  coach  on  the 
Fukien  mission.  P?  F?  How  used  you  learn  me,  brather 
soboostius,  in  my  augustan  days?  With  cesarella  looking  on. 
In  the  beginning  was  the  gest  he  jousstly  says,  for  the  end  is 
with  woman,  flesh-without-word,  while  the  man  to  be  is  in  a 
worse  case  after  than  before  since  she  on  the  supine  satisfies 
the  verg  to  him!  Toughtough,  tootoological.  Thou  the  first 
person  shingeller.  Art,  an  imperfect  subjunctive.  Paltry, 
fiappent,  had  serious.  Miss  Smith  onamatterpoetic.  Hammis- 
andivis  axes  colles  waxes  warmas  like  sodullas.  So  pick  your 
stops  with  fondnes  snow.  And  mind  you  twine  the  twos 
noods  of  your  nicenames.  And  pull  up  your  furbelovs  as  far- 
above  as  you're  farthingales.  That'll  hint  him  how  to  click  the 
trigger.  Show  you  shall  and  won't  he  will!  His  hearing  is  in- 
doubting  just  as  my  seeing  is  onbelieving.  So  dactylise  him  up 
to  blankpoint  and  let  him  blink  for  himself  where  you  speak  the 
best  ticklish.  You'll  feel  what  I  mean.  Fond  namer,  let  me  never 
see  thee  blame  a  kiss  for  shame  a  knee ! 

Echo,  read  ending!  Siparioramoci !  But  from  the  stress  of 
their  sunder  enlivening,  ay  clasp,  deciduously,  a  nikrokosmikon 
must  come  to  mike. 

—  Well,  my  positively  last  at  any  stage !  I  hate  to  look  at  alarms 
but,  however  I  they  put  on  my  watchcraft,  must  now  close  as  I 
hereby  hear  by  ear  from  by  seeless  socks  'tis  time  to  be  up  and 
ambling.  Mymiddle  toe's  mitching,  so  mizzle  I  must  else  'twill 
sarve  me  out.  Gulp  a  bulper  at  parting  and  the  moore  the 
melodest!  Farewell  but  whenever,  as  Tisdall  told  Toole. 
Tempos  fidgets.  Let  flee  me  fiacckles,  says  the  grand  old  mano- 
ark,  stormcrested  crowcock  and  undulant  hair,  hoodies  tway! 
Yes,  faith,  I  am  as  mew  let  freer,  beneath  me  corthage,  bound. 
I'm  as  bored  now  bawling  beersgrace  at  sorepaws  there  as  Andrew 
Clays  was  sharing  sawdust  with  Daniel's  old  collie.  This  shack's 
not  big  enough  for  me  now.  I'm  dreaming  of  ye,  azores.  And,  re- 
member this,  a  chorines,  there's  the  witch  on  the  heath,  sistra! 
'Bansheeba  peeling  hourihaared  while  her  Orcotron  is  hearing 

468 


1 


ho.  And  whinn  muinnuit  flittsbit  twinn  her  ttittshe  cries 
tallmidy!  Daughters  of  the  heavens,  be  lucks  in  turnabouts 
to  the  wandering  sons  of  red  loam!  The  earth's  atrot!  The 
sun's  a  scream !  The  air's  a  jig.  The  water's  great !  Seven  oldy 
oldy  hills  and  the  one  blue  beamer.  I'm  going.  I  know  I  am. 
I  could  bet  I  am.  Somewhere  I  must  get  far  away  from  Banba- 
shore,  wherever  I  am.  No  saddle,  no  staffet,  but  spur  on  the 
moment!  So  I  think  I'll  take  freeboots'  advise.  Psk!  I'll  borrow 
a  path  to  lend  me  wings,  quickquack,  and  from  Jehusalem's 
wall,  clickclack,  me  courser's  clear,  to  Cheerup  street  I'll  travel 
the  void  world  over.  It's  Winland  for  moyne,  bickbuck!  Jee- 
jakers!  I  hurt  meself  nettly  that  time!  Come,  my  good  frog- 
marchers!  We  felt  the  fall  but  we'll  front  the  defile.  Was  not  my 
olty  mutther,  Sereth  Maritza,  a  Runningwater.'^  And  the  bould 
one  that  quickened  her  the  seaborne  Fingale.'^  I  feel  like  that 
hill  of  a  whaler  went  yulding  round  Groenmund's  Circus  with 
his  tree  full  of  seaweeds  and  Dinky  Doll  asleep  in  her  shell. 
Hazelridge  has  seen  me.  Jerne  valing  is.  Squall  aboard  for  Kew, 
hop!  Farewell  awhile  to  her  and  thee!  The  brine's  my  bride  to 
be.  Lead  on.  Macadam,  and  danked  be  he  who  first  sights  Halt 
Linduff!  Solo,  solone,  solong!  Lood  Erynnana,  ware  thee  wail! 
With  me  singame  soarem  o'erem!  Here's  me  take  off.  Now's 
nunc  or  nimmer,  siskinder!  Here  goes  the  enemy!  Bennydick 
hotfoots  onimpudent  stayers!  Sorry!  I  bless  alls  to  the  whished 
with  this  panromain  apological  which  Watllwewhistlem  sang  to 
the  kerrycoys.  Break  ranks!  After  wage-of-battle  bother  I  am 
thinking  most.  Fik  yew!  I'm  through.  Won.  Toe.  Adry.  You 
watch  my  smoke. 

After  poor  Jaun  the  Boast's  last  fireless  words  of  postludium 
of  his  soapbox  speech  ending  in'sheaven,  twentyaid  add  one  with 
a  flirt  of  wings  were  pouring  to  his  bysistance  (could  they  snip 
that  curl  of  curls  to  lay  with  their  gloves  and  keep  the  kids 
bright!)  prepared  to  cheer  him  should  he  leap  or  to  curse  him 
should  he  fall,  but,  with  their  biga  triga  rheda  rodeo,  the  cherubs 
in  the  charabang,  set  down  here  and  sedan  chair,  don't  you 
wish  you'd  a  yoke  or  a  bit  in  your  mouth,  repulsing  all  attempts 

469 


at  first  hands  on,  as  no  es  nada,  our  greatly  misunderstood  one 
we  perceived  to  give  himself  some  sort  of  a  hermetic  prod  or 
kick  to  sit  up  and  take  notice,  which  acted  like  magic,  while 
the  phalanx  of  daughters  of  February  Filldyke,  embushed  and 
climbing,  ramblers  and  weeps,  voiced  approval  in  their  customary 
manner  by  dropping  kneedeep  in  tears  over  their  concelebrated 
meednight  sunflower,  piopadey  boy,  their  solase  in  dorckaness, 
and  splattering  together  joyously  the  plaps  of  their  tappy hands 
as,  with  a  cry  of  genuine  distress,  so  prettly  prattly  pollylogue, 
they  viewed  him,  the  just  one,  their  darling,  away. 

A  dream  of  favours,  a  favourable  dream.  They  know  how  they 
believe  that  they  believe  that  they  know.  Wherefore  they  wail. 

EhjourdVeh!  OhjourdVoe!  dosiriously  it  psalmodied.  Gues- 
turn's  lothlied  answring  to-maronite's  wail. 

Oasis,  cedarous  esaltarshoming  Leafboughnoon ! 

Oisis,  coolpressus  onmountof  Sighing! 

Oasis,  palmost  esaltarshoming  Gladdays ! 

Oisis,  phantastichal  roseway  anjerichol ! 

Oasis,  newleavos  spaciosing  encampness ! 

Oisis,  plantainous  dewstuckacqmirage  playtennis! 

Pipetto,  Pipetta  has  misery  unnoticed! 

But  the  strangest  thing  happened.  Backscuttling  for  the  hop 
off  with  the  odds  altogether  in  favour  of  his  tumbling  into  the 
river,  Jaun  just  then  I  saw  to  collect  from  the  gentlest  weaner 
among  the  weiners,  (who  by  this  were  in  half  droopleaflong 
mourning  for  the  passing  of  the  last  post)  the  familiar  yellow 
label  into  which  he  let  fall  a  drop,  smothered  a  curse,  choked  a 
guffaw,  spat  expectoratiously  and  blew  his  own  trumpet.  And  next 
thing  was  he  gummalicked  the  stickyback  side  and  stamped  the 
oval  badge  of  belief  to  his  agnelows  brow  with  a  genuine 
dash  of  irrepressible  piety  that  readily  turned  his  ladylike 
typmanzelles  capsy  curvy  (the  holy  scamp!),  with  half  a 
glance  of  Irish  frisky  (a  Juan  Jaimesan  hastaluego)  from  under 
the  shag  of  his  parallel  brows.  It  was  then  he  made  as  if  be 
but  waved  instead  a  handacross  the  sea  as  notice  to  quit  while 
the  pacifettes  made  their  armpacts  widdershins  (Frida!  Freda! 

470 


II 


Paza!  Paisy!  Irine!  Areinette!  Bridomay!  Bentamai!  Soso- 
sopky!  Bebebekka!  Bababadkessy!  Ghugugoothoyou !  Dama! 
Damadomina!  Takiya!  Tokaya!  Scioccara!  Siuccherillina!  Peoc- 
chia!  Peucchia!  Ho  Mi  Hoping!  Ha  Me  Happinice!  Mirra!  My- 
rha!  Solyma!  Salemita!  Sainta!  Sianta!  O  Peace!),  but  in  self- 
righting  the  balance  of  his  corporeity  to  reexchange  widerem- 
brace  with  the  pillarbosom  of  the  Dizzier  he  loved  prettier,  be- 
tween estellos  and  venoussas,  bad  luck  to  the  lie  but  when  next 
to  nobody  expected,  their  star  and  gartergazer  at  the  summit  of 
his  climax,  he  toppled  a  lipple  on  to  the  off  and,  making  a  brand- 
new  start  for  himself  to  run  down  his  easting,  by  blessing  hes 
sthers  with  the  sign  of  the  southern  cross,  his  bungaloid  borsa- 
line  with  the  hedgygreen  bound  blew  off  in  a  loveblast  (award 
for  trover!)  and  Jawjon  Redhead,  bucketing  after,  meccamaniac, 
(the  headless  shall  have  legs!),  kingscouriered  round  with  an  easy 
rush  and  ready  relays  by  the  bridge  a  stadion  beyond  Ladycastle 
(and  what  herm  but  he  narrowly  missed  fouling  her  buttress  for 
her  but  for  he  acqueducked)  and  then,  cocking  a  snook  at  the 
stock  of  his  sermons,  so  mear  and  yet  so  fahr  from  that  region's 
general,  away  with  him  at  the  double,  the  hulk  of  a  garron, 
pelting  after  the  road,  on  Shanks's  mare,  let  off  like  a  wind  hound 
loose  (the  bouchal!  you'd  think  it  was  that  moment  they  gave 
him  the  jambos!)  with  a  posse  of  tossing  hankerwaves  to  his 
windward  like  seraph's  summonses  on  the  air  and  a  tempest  of 
good  things  in  packetshape  teeming  from  all  accounts  into  the 
funnel  of  his  fanmail  shrimpnet,  along  the  highroad  of  the 
nation.  Traitor's  Track,  following  which  fond  floral  fray  he  was 
quickly  lost  to  sight  through  the  statuemen  though  without  a 
doubt  he  was  all  the  more  on  that  same  head  to  memory  dear 
while  Sickerson,  that  borne  of  bjoeme,  la  garde  auxiliaire  she 
murmured,  hellyg  Ursulinka,  full  of  woe  (and  how  fitlier  should 
goodboy's  hand  be  shook  than  by  the  warmin  of  her  besom 
that  wrung  his  swaddles?):  Where  maggot  Harvey  kneeled  till  hags? 
Ate  Andrew  coos  hogdam  farvelf 

Wethen,  now,  may  the  good  people  speed  you,  rural  Haun, 
export  stout  fellow  that  you  are,  the  crooner  born  with  sweet 

471 


wail  of  evoker,  healing  music,  ay,  and  heart  in  hand  of  Sham- 
rogueshire !  The  googoos  of  the  suckabolly  in  the  rockabeddy  are 
become  the  copiosity  of  wiseableness  of  the  friarylayman  in  the 
pulpitbarrel.  May  your  bawny  hair  grow  rarer  and  fairer,  our  own 
only  wideheaded  boy!  Rest  your  voice!  Feed  your  mind!  Mint 
your  peas!  Coax  your  qyous!  Come  to  disdoon  blarmey  and 
walk  our  groves  so  charming  and  see  again  the  sweet  rockelose 
where  first  you  hymned  0  Ciesa  Mea!  and  touch  the  light  the- 
orbo !  Songster,  angler,  choreographer !  Piper  to  prisoned !  Musi- 
cianship made  Embrassador-at-Large !  Good  by  nature  and 
natural  by  design,  had  you  but  been  spared  to  us,  Hauneen  lad, 
but  sure  where's  the  use  my  talking  quicker  when  I  know  you'll 
hear  me  all  astray?  My  long  farewell  I  send  to  you,  fair  dream  of 
sport  and  game  and  always  something  new*.  Gone  is  Haun!  My 
grief,  my  ruin!  Our  Joss-el-Jovan !  Our  Chris-na-Murty !  Tis  well 
you'll  be  looked  after  from  last  to  first  as  yon  beam  of  light  we 
follow  receding  on  your  photophoric  pilgrimage  to  your  anti- 
podes in  the  past,  you  who  so  often  consigned  your  distributory 
tidings  of  great  joy  into  our  never toolatetolove  box,  mansuetudi- 
nous  manipulator,  victimisedly  victorihoarse,  dearest  Haun  of 
all,  you  of  the  boots,  true  as  adie,  stepwalker,  pennyatimer, 
lampaddyfair,  postanulengro,  our  rommanychiel !  Thy  now  pal- 
ing light  lucerne  we  ne'er  may  see  again.  But  could  it  speak  how 
nicely  would  it  splutter  to  the  four  cantons  praises  be  to  thee, 
our  pattern  sent!  For  you  had  —  may  I,  in  our,  your  and  their 
names,  dare  to  say  it.'^  —  the  nucleus  of  a  glow  of  a  zeal  of  soul 
of  service  such  as  rarely,  if  ever,  have  I  met  with  single  men. 
Numerous  are  those  who,  nay,  there  are  a  dozen  of  folks  still 
unclaimed  by  the  death  angel  in  this  country  of  ours  today, 
humble  indivisibles  in  this  grand  continuum,  overlorded  by  fate 
and  interlarded  with  accidence,  who,  while  there  are  hours  and 
days,  will  fervently  pray  to  the  spirit  above  that  they  may  never 
depart  this  earth  of  theirs  till  in  his  long  run  from  that  place 
where  the  day  begins,  ere  he  retourneys  postexilic,  on  that  day 
that  belongs  to  joyful  Ireland,  the  people  that  is  of  all  time,  the 
old  old  oldest,  the  young  young  youngest,  after  decades  of 


I 


longsuffering  and  decennia  of  brief  glory,  to  mind  us  of  what 
was  when  and  to  matter  us  of  the  withering  of  our  ways,  their 
Janyouare  Fibyouare  wins  true  from  Sylvester  (only  Walker 
himself  is  like  Waltzer,  whimsicalissimo  they  go  murmurand) 
comes  marching  ahome  on  the  summer  crust  of  the  flagway. 
Life,  it  is  true,  will  be  a  blank  without  you  because  avicuum's  not 
there  at  all,  to  nomore  cares  from  nomad  knows,  ere  Molochy 
wars  bring  the  devil  era,  a  slip  of  the  time  between  a  date  and  a 
ghostmark,  rived  by  darby's  chilldays  embers,  spatched  fun 
Juhn  that  dandyforth,  from  the  night  we  are  and  feel  and  fade 
with  to  the  yesterselves  we  tread  to  turnupon. 

But,  boy,  you  did  your  strong  nine  furlong  mile  in  slick  and 
slapstick  record  time  and  a  farfetched  deed  it  was  in  troth,  cham- 
pion docile,  with  your  high  bouncing  gait  of  going  and  your 
feat  of  passage  will  be  contested  with  you  and  through  you,  for 
centuries  to  come.  The  phaynix  rose  a  sun  before  Erebia  sank  his 
smother!  Shoot  up  on  that,  bright  Bennu  bird!  Va  faotre! 
Eftsoon  so  too  will  our  own  sphoenix  spark  spirt  his  spyre 
and  sunward  stride  the  rampante  flambe.  Ay,  already  the 
sombrer  opacities  of  the  gloom  are  sphanished!  Brave  footsore 
Haun!  Work  your  progress!  Hold  to!  Now!  Win  out,  ye  divil  ye! 
The  silent  cock  shall  crow  at  last.  The  west  shall  shake  the  east  1 
awake.  Walk  while  ye  have  the  night  for  morn,  lightbreakfast-  j 
bringer,  morroweth  whereon  every  past  shall  full  fost  sleep.  | 
Amain. 


473 


Lowly,  longly,  a  wail  went  forth.  Pure  Yawn  lay  low.  On  the 
mead  of  the  hillock  lay,  heartsoul  dormant  mid  shadowed  land- 
shape,  brief  wallet  to  his  side,  and  arm  loose,  by  his  staff  of  citron 
briar,  tradition  stick-pass-on.  His  dream  monologue  was  over, 
of  cause,  but  his  drama  parapolylogic  had  yet  to  be,  affact.  Most 
distressfully  (but,  my  dear,  how  successfully!)  to  wail  he  did, 
his  locks  of  a  lucan  tinge,  quickrich,  ripely  rippling,  unfilleted, 
those  lashbetasselled  lids  on  the  verge  of  closing  time,  whiles 
ouze  of  his  sidewiseopen  mouth  the  breath  of  him,  evenso 
languishing  as  the  princeliest  treble  treacle  or  lichee  chewchow 
purse  could  buy.  Yawn  in  a  semiswoon  lay  awailing  and  (hooh !) 
what  helpings  of  honeyful  swoothead  (phew!),  which  ear- 
piercing  dulcitude !  As  were  you  suppose  to  go  and  push  with 
your  bluntblank  pin  in  hand  upinto  his  fleshasplush  cushionettes 
of  some  chubby  boybold  love  of  an  angel.  Hwoah ! 

When,  as  the  buzzer  brings  the  light  brigade,  keeping  the 
home  fires  burning,  so  on  the  churring  call  themselves  came  at 
him,  from  the  westborders  of  the  eastmidlands,  three  kings  of 
three  suits  and  a  crowner,  from  all  their  cardinal  parts,  along 
the  amber  way  where  Brosna's  furzy.  To  lift  them  they  did, 
senators  four,  by  the  first  quaint  skreek  of  the  gloaming  and 
they  hopped  it  up  the  mountainy  molehill,  traversing  climes 
of  old  times  gone  by  of  the  days  not  worth  remembering; 
inventing  some  excusethems,  any  sort,  having  a  sevenply 

474 


i 


sweat  of  night  blues  moist  upon  them.  Feefee!  phopho!! 
foorchtha ! ! !  aggala ! ! ! !  jeeshee ! ! ! ! !  paloola !!!!!!  ooridiminy !!!!!!! 
Afeared  themselves  were  to  wonder  at  the  class  of  a  crossroads 
puzzler  he  would  likely  be,  length  by  breadth  nonplussing  his 
thickness,  ells  upon  ells  of  him,  making  so  many  square  yards  of 
him,  one  half  of  him  in  Conn's  half  but  the  whole  of  him  never- 
theless in  Owenmore's  five  quarters.  There  would  he  lay  till 
they  would  him  descry,  spancelled  down  upon  a  blossomy  bed,  at 
one  foule  stretch,  amongst  the  daffydowndillies,  the  flowers  of 
narcosis  fourfettering  his  footlights,  a  halohedge  of  wild  spuds 
hovering  over  him,  epicures  waltzing  with  gardenfiUers,  puritan 
shoots  advancing  to  Aran  chiefs.  Phopho!!  The  meteor  pulp 
of  him,  the  seamless  rainbowpeel.  Aggala ! ! ! !  His  bellyvoid  of 
nebulose  with  his  neverstop  navel.  Paloola!!!!!!  And  his  veins 
shooting  melanite  phosphor,  his  creamtocustard  cometshair  and 
his  asteroid  knuckles,  ribs  and  members.  Ooridiminy!!!!!!!  His 
electrolatiginous  twisted  entrails  belt. 

Those  four  daymen  clomb  together  to  hold  their  sworn  star- 
chamber  quiry  on  him.  For  he  was  ever  their  quarrel,  the  way 
they  would  see  themselves,  everybug  his  bodiment  atop  of 
annywom  her  notion,  and  the  meet  of  their  noght  was  worth  two 
of  his  morning.  Up  to  the  esker  ridge  it  was,  Mallinger  parish,  to  a 
mead  that  was  not  far,  the  son's  rest.  First  klettered  Shanator 
Gregory,  seeking  spoor  through  the  deep  timefield,  Shanator 
Lyons,  trailing  the  wavy  line  of  his  partition  footsteps  (some- 
thing in  his  blisters  was  telling  him  all  along  how  he  had 
been  in  that  place  one  time),  then  his  Recordership,  Dr  Shuna- 
dure  Tarpey,  caperchasing  after  honourable  sleep,  hot  on  to  the 
aniseed  and,  up  out  of  his  prompt  corner,  oldShunny  MacShunny, 
MacDougal  the  hiker,  in  the  rere  of  them  on  the  run,  to  make  a 
quorum.  Roping  their  ass  he  was,  their  skygrey  globetrotter, 
by  way  of  an  afterthought  and  by  no  means  legless  either  for 
such  sprouts  on  him  they  were  that  much  oneven  it  was  tumbling 
he  was  by  four  lengths,  within  the  bawl  of  a  mascot,  kuss  yuss, 
kuss  cley,  patsy  watsy,  like  the  kapr  in  the  kabisses,  the  big  ass, 
to  hear  with  his  unaided  ears  the  harp  in  the  air,  the  bugle 

475 


dianablowing,  wild  as  wild,  the  mockingbird  whose  word  is 
misfortune,  so  'tis  said,  the  bulbul  down  the  wind. 

The  proto  was  traipsing  through  the  tangle  then,  Mathew 
Walker,  godsons'  goddestfar,  deputising  for  gossipocracy, 
and  his  station  was  a  few  perch  to  the  weatherside  of  the 
knoll  Asnoch  and  it  was  from  no  other  place  unless  there,  how 
and  ever,  that  he  proxtended  aloof  upon  the  ether  Mesmer's 
Manuum,  the  hand  making  silence.  The  buckos  beyond  on  the  lea, 
then  stopped  wheresoever  they  found  their  standings  and  that  way 
they  set  ward  about  him,  doing  obedience,  nod,  bend,  bow  and 
curtsey,  like  the  watchers  of  Prospect,  upholding  their  broad- 
awake  prober's  hats  on  their  firrum  heads,  the  travelling  court  on 
its  findings  circuiting  that  personer  in  his  fallen.  And  a  crack  quat- 
youare  of  stenoggers  they  made  of  themselves,  solons  and  psy- 
chomorers,  all  told,  with  their  hurts  and  daimons,  spites  and 
clops,  not  even  to  the  seclusion  of  their  beast  by  them  that  was 
the  odd  trick  of  the  pack,  trump  and  no  friend  of  carrots.  And, 
what  do  you  think,  who  should  be  laying  there  above  all  other 
persons  forenenst  them  only  Yawn !  All  of  asprawl  he  was  laying 
too  amengst  the  poppies  and,  I  can  tell  you  something  more  than 
that,  drear  writer,  profoundly  as  you  may  bedeave  to  it,  he  was 
oscasleep  asleep.  And  it  was  far  more  similar  to  a  satrap  he  lay  there 
with  unctuous  beauty  all  surrounded,  the  poser,  or  for  whatall  I 
know  like  Lord  Lumen,  coaching  his  preferred  constellations  in 
faith  and  doctrine,  for  old  Matt  Gregory,  'tis  he  had  the  starmenag- 
erie,  Marcus  Lyons  and  Lucas  Metcalfe  Tarpey  and  the  mack 
that  never  forgave  the  ass  that  lurked  behind  him,  Jonny  na 
Hossaleen. 

More  than  their  good  share  of  their  five  senses  ensorcelled 
you  would  say  themselves  were,  fuming  censor,  the  way  they 
could  not  rightly  tell  their  heels  from  their  stools  as  they  cooched 
down  a  mamalujo  by  his  cubical  crib,  as  question  time  drew 
nighing  and  the  map  of  the  souls'  groupography  rose  in  relief 
