crying  fair  day?  Moisten  your  lips  for  a  lightning  strike  and  begin 
again.  Mind  the  flickers  and  dimmers !  Better? 

—  Well.  The  isles  is  Thymes.  The  ales  is  Penzance.  Vehement 
Genral.  Delhi  expulsed. 

—  Still  calling  of  somewhave  from  its  specific?  Not  more? 
Lesscontinuous.  There  were  fires  on  every  bald  hill  in  holy 
Ireland  that  night.  Better  so? 

—  You  may  say  they  were,  son  of  a  cove ! 

—  Were  they  bonfires?  That  clear? 

—  No  other  name  would  at  all  befit  them  unless  that.  Bona- 
fieries!  With  their  blue  beards  streaming  to  the  heavens. 

—  Was  it  a  high  white  night  now? 

—  Whitest  night  mortal  ever  saw. 

—  Was  our  lord  of  the  heights  nigh  our  lady  of  the  valley? 

—  He  was  hosting  himself  up  and  flosting  himself  around  and 
ghosting  himself  to  merry  her  murmur  like  an  andeanupper 
balkan. 

—  Lewd's  carol !  Was  there  rain  by  any  chance,  mistande w? 

501 


—  Plenty.  If  you  wend  farranoch. 

—  There  fell  some  fall  of  littlewinter  snow,  holy-as-ivory, 
I  gather,  jesse? 

—  By  snaachtha  clocka.  The  nicest  at  all.  In  hilly-and-even 
zimalayars. 

—  Did  it  not  blow  some  gales,  westnass  or  ostscent,  rather 
strongly  to  less,  allin  humours  out  of  turn,  jusse  as  they  rose  and 
sprungen.'^ 

—  Out  of  all  jokes  it  did.  Pipep!  Icecold.  Brr  na  brr,  ny  prr! 
Lieto  galumphantes ! 

—  Stll  cling!  Nmr!  Peace,  Pacific!  Do  you  happen  to  recollect 
whether  Muna,  that  highlucky  nackt,  was  shining  at  all.'^ 

—  Sure  she  was,  my  midday  darling!  And  not  one  but  a  pair 
of  pritty  geallachers. 

—  Quando.'^  Quonda.'^  Go  datey! 

—  Latearly!  Latearly!  Latearly!  Latearly! 

—  That  was  latterlig  certainly.  And  was  there  frostwork 
about  and  thick  weather  and  hice,  soon  calid,  soon  frozen,  cold  on 
warm  but  moistly  dry,  and  a  boatshaped  blanket  of  bruma  air- 
sighs  and  hellstohns  and  flammballs  and  vodashouts  and  every- 
thing to  please  everybody.'^ 

—  Hail  many  fell  of  greats!  Horey  morey  smother  of  fog! 
There  was,  so  plays  your  ahrtides.  Absolutely  boiled. 
Obsoletely  cowled.  Julie  and  Lulie  at  their  parkiest. 

—  The  amenities,  the  amenities  of  the  amenities  with  all  their 
amenities.  And  the  firmness  of  the  formous  of  the  famous  of  the 
fumous  of  the  first  fog  in  Maidanvale.'^ 

—  Catchecatche  and  couchamed! 

—  From  Miss  Somer's  nice  dream  back  to  Mad  Winthrop's 
delugium  stramens.  One  expects  that  kind  of  rimey  feeling  in  the 
sire  season.'^ 

—  One  certainly  does.  Desire,  for  hire,  would  tire  a  shire, 
phone,  phunkel,  or  wire.  And  mares. 

—  Of  whitecaps  any.-^ 

—  Foamflakes  flockfuyant  from  Foxrock  to  Finglas. 

—  A  lambskip  for  the  marines!  Paronama!  The  entire  hori- 

502 


I 


zon  cloth!  All  effects  in  their  joints  caused  ways.  Raindrum, 
windmachine,  snowbox.  But  thundersheet? 

—  No  here.  Under  the  blunkets. 

—  This  common  or  garden  is  now  in  stilller  realithy  the 
starey  sphere  of  an  oleotorium  for  broken  pottery  and  ancient 
vegetables? 

—  Simply  awful  the  dirt.  An  evernasty  ashtray. 

—  I  see.  Now  do  you  know  the  wellknown  kikkinmidden 
where  the  illassorted  first  couple  first  met  with  each  other.'^  The 
place  where  Ealdermann  Fanagan.'^  The  time  when  Junkermenn 
Funagin.'^ 

—  Deed  then  I  do,  W.K. 

—  In  Fingal  too  they  met  at  Littlepeace  aneath  the  bidetree, 
Yellowhouse  of  Snugsborough,  Westreeve-Astagob  and  Sluts- 
end  with  Stockins  of  Winning's  Folly  Merryfalls,  all  of  a  two, 
skidoo  and  skephumble.'^ 

—  Godamedy,  you're  a  delville  of  a  tolkar! 

—  Is  it  a  place  fairly  exspoused  to  the  four  last  winds.'^ 

—  Well,  I  faithly  sincerely  believe  so  indeed  if  all  what  I  hope 
to  charity  is  half  true. 

—  This  stow  on  the  wolds,  is  it  Woful  Dane  Bottom.'^ 

—  It  is  woful  in  need  whatever  about  anything  or  allselse 
under  the  grianblachk  sun  of  gan  greyne  Eireann. 

—  A  tricolour  ribbon  that  spells  a  caution.  The  old  flag,  the  cold 
flag. 

—  The  flagstone.  By  tombs,  deep  and  heavy.  To  the  unaveiling 
memory  of.  Peacer  the  grave. 

—  And  what  sigeth  Woodin  Warneung  thereof.'^ 

—  Trickspissers  vill  be  pairsecluded. 

—  There  used  to  be  a  tree  stuck  up.^  An  overlisting  eshtree.'^ 

—  There  used,  sure  enough.  Beside  the  Annar.  At  the  ford 
of  Slivenamond.  Oakley  Ashe's  elm.  With  a  snoodrift  from  one 
beerchen  bough.  And  the  grawndest  crowndest  consecrated  may- 
pole in  all  the  reignladen  history  of  Wilds.  Browne's  Thesaurus 
Plantarum  from  Nolan's,  The  Prittlewell  Press,  has  nothing  alike 
it.  For  we  are  fed  of  its  forest,  clad  in  its  wood,  burqued  by  its 

503 


bark  and  our  lecture  is  its  leave.  The  cran,  the  cran  the  king  of  all 
crans.  Squiremade  and  damesman  of  plantagenets,  high  and  holy. 

— Now,  no  hiding  your  wren  under  a  bushle!  What  was  it 
doing  there,  for  instance.'^ 

—  Standing  foreninst  us. 

—  In  Summerian  sunshine.'^ 

—  And  in  Cimmerian  shudders. 

—  You  saw  it  visibly  from  your  hidingplace.'^ 

—  No.  From  my  invisibly  lyingplace. 

—  And  you  then  took  down  in  stereo  what  took  place  being 
tunc  committed.'* 

—  I  then  tuk  my  takenplace  lying  down,  I  thunk  I  told  you. 
Solve  it! 

—  Remounting  aliftle  towards  the  ouragan  of  spaces.  Just 
how  grand  in  cardinal  rounders  is  this  preeminent  giant,  sir 
Arber.^  Your  bard's  high  view,  avis  on  valley!  I  would  like  to  hear 
you  burble  to  us  in  strict  conclave,  purpurando,  and  without 
too  much  italiote  interfairance,  what  you  know  in  petto  about  our 
sovereign  beingstalk,  Tonans  Tomazeus.  O  ditef 

—  Corcor  Andy,  Udi^  Uditef  Your  Ominence,  Your  Immi- 
nence and  delicted  fraterni trees !  There's  tuodore  queensmaids 
and  Idahore  shopgirls  and  they  woody  babies  growing  upon  her 
and  bird  flamingans  sweenyswinging  fuglewards  on  the  tipmast 
and  Orania  epples  playing  hopptociel  bommptaterre  and  Ty- 
burn fenians  snoring  in  his  quickenbole  and  crossbones  strewing 
its  holy  floor  and  culprines  of  Erasmus  Smith's  burstall  boys 
with  their  underhand  leadpencils  climbing  to  her  crotch  for  the 
origin  of  spices  and  charlotte  darlings  with  silk  blue  askmes 
chattering  in  dissent  to  them,  gibbonses  and  gobbenses,  guelfing 
and  ghiberring  proferring  praydews  to  their  anatolies  and  blight- 
ing findblasts  on  their  catastripes  and  the  killmaimthem  pen- 
sioners chucking  overthrown  milestones  up  to  her  to  fall  her 
cranberries  and  her  pommes  annettes  for  their  unnatural  refection 
and  handpainted  hoydens  plucking  husbands  of  him  and  cock 
robins  muchmore  hatching  most  out  of  his  missado  eggdrazzles 
for  him,  the  sun  and  moon  pegging  honeysuckle  and  white 

504 


heather  down  and  timtits  tapping  resin  there  and  tomahawks 
watching  tar  elsewhere,  creatures  of  the  wold  approaching  him, 
hollow  mid  ivy,  for  to  claw  and  rub,  hermits  of  the  desert 
barking  their  infernal  shins  over  her  triliteral  roots  and  his  acorns 
and  pinecorns  shooting  wide  all  sides  out  of  him,  plantitude 
outsends  of  plenty  to  thousands,  after  the  truants  of  the  utmost- 
fear  and  her  downslyder  in  that  snakedst-tu-naughsy  whimmering 
woman't  seeleib  such  a  fashionaping  sathinous  dress  out  of  that 
exquisitive  creation  and  her  leaves,  my  darling  dearest,  sinsin- 
sinning  since  the  night  of  time  and  each  and  all  of  their  branches 
meeting  and  shaking  twisty  hands  all  over  again  in  their  new 
world  through  the  germination  of  its  gemination  from  Ond's 
outset  till  Odd*s  end.  And  encircle  him  circuly.  Evovae! 

—  Is  it  so  exaltated,  eximious,  extraoldandairy  and  excels- 
siorising? 

—  Amengst  menlike  trees  walking  or  trees  like  angels  weep- 
ing nobirdy  aviar  soar  anywing  to  eagle  it!  But  rocked  of  agues, 
clifFed  for  aye! 

—  Telleth  that  eke  the  treeth? 

—  Mushe,  mushe  of  a  mixness. 

—  A  shrub  of  libertine,  indeed!  But  that  steyne  of  law  indead 
what  stiles  its  neming? 

—  Tod,  tod,  too  hard  parted! 

—  Fve  got  that  now,  Dr  Melamanessy.  Finight  mens  mid- 
infinite  true.  The  form  masculine.  The  gender  feminine.  I  see. 
Now,  are  you  derevatov  of  it  yourself  in  any  way.'^  The  true 
tree  I  mean?  Let's  hear  what  science  has  to  say,  pundit- the- 
next-best-king.  Splanck ! 

—  Upfellbowm. 

—  It  reminds  of  the  weeping  of  the  daughters? 

—  And  remounts  to  the  sense  arrest. 

—  The  wittold,  the  frausch  and  the  dibble !  How  this  loose- 
affair  brimsts  of  fussforus!  And  was  this  treemanangel  on  his 
soredbohmend  because  Knockout,  the  knickknaver,  knacked 
him  in  the  knechtschaft? 

—  Well,  he  was  ever  himself  for  the  presention  of  crudities  to 

505 


animals  for  he  had  put  his  own  nickelname  on  every  toad,  duck 
and  herring  before  the  climber  clomb  aloft,  doing  the  midhill  of 
the  park,  flattering  his  bitter  hoolft  with  her  conconundrums. 
He  would  let  us  have  the  three  barrels.  Such  was  a  bitte  too  thikke 
for  the  Muster  of  the  hoose  so  as  he  called  down  on  the  Grand 
Precurser  who  coiled  him  a  crawler  of  the  dupest  dye  and 
thundered  at  him  to  flatch  down  off  that  erection  and  be  aslimed 
of  himself  for  the  bellance  of  hissch  leif. 

—  Oh  Finlay's  coldpalled! 

—  Ahday's  begatem ! 

—  Were  you  there,  eh  Hehr?  Were  you  there  when  they 
lagged  um  through  the  coombe? 

—  Wo  wo!  Who  who!  Psalmtimes  it  grauws  on  me  to  ramble, 
ramble,  ramble. 

—  Woe!  Woe!  So  that  was  how  he  became  the  foerst  of  our 
treefellers? 

—  Yesche  and,  in  the  absence  of  any  soberiquiet,  the  fanest 
of  our  truefalluses.  Bapsbaps  Bomslinger! 

—  How  near  do  you  feel  to  this  capocapo  promontory,  sir? 

—  There  do  be  days  of  dry  coldness  between  us  when  he  does 
be  like  a  lidging  house  far  far  astray  and  there  do  be  nights  of  wet 
windwhistling  when  he  does  be  making  me  onions  woup  all  kinds 
of  ways. 

—  Now  you  are  mehrer  the  murk,  Lansdowne  Road.  She's 
threwed  her  pippin's  thereabouts  and  they've  cropped  up  tooth 
oneydge  with  hates  to  leaven  this  socried  isle.  Now,  thornybom, 
follow  the  spotlight, please! Concerning  a  boy.  Are  you  acquainted 
with  a  pagany,  vicariously  known  as  Toucher  *Thpm'  who  is.  I 
suggest  Finoglam  as  his  habitat.  Consider  yourself  on  the  stand 
now  and  watch  your  words,  take  my  advice.  Let  your  motto  be: 
Inter  nubila  numbum, 

—  Never  you  mind  about  my  mother  or  her  hopitout.  I  con- 
sider if  I  did,  I  would  feel  frightfully  ashamed  of  admired  vice. 

—  He  is  a  man  of  around  fifty,  struck  on  Anna  Lynsha's 
Pekoe  with  milk  and  whisky,  who  does  messuages  and  has  more 
dirt  on  him  than  an  old  dog  has  fleas,  kicking  stones  and  knocking 

506 


1 


snow  off  walls.  Have  you  ever  heard  of  this  old  boy  "Thorn"  or  ^^on^-^ 
"Thim"  of  the  fishy  stare  who  belongs  to  Kimmage,  a  crofting  dis- 
trict, and  is  not  all  there,  and  is  all  the  more  himself  since  he  is 
not  so,  being  most  of  his  time  down  at  the  Green  Man  where  he 
steals,  pawns,  belches  and  is  a  curse,  drinking  gaily  two  hours  after 
closing  time,  with  the  coat  on  him  skinside  out  against  rappari- 
tions,  with  his  socks  outsewed  his  springsides,  clapping  his  hands 
in  a  feeble  sort  of  way  and  systematically  mixing  with  the  public 
going  for  groceries,  slapping  greats  and  littlegets  soundly  with 
his  cattegut  belts,  flapping  baresides  and  waltzywembling  about 
in  his  accountrements  always  in  font  of  the  tubbernuckles,  like 
a  longarmed  lugh,  when  he  would  be  finished  with  his  tea? 

—  Is  it  that  fellow?  As  mad  as  the  brambles  he  is.  Touch  him. 
With  the  lawyers  sticking  to  his  trewsershins  and  the  swatme- 
notting  on  the  basque  of  his  beret.  He  has  kissed  me  more  than 
once,  I  am  sorry  to  say  and  if  I  did  commit  gladrolleries  may  the 
loone  forgive  it!  O  wait  till  I  tell  you! 

—  We  are  not  going  yet. 

—  And  look  here!  Here's,  my  dear,  what  he  done,  as  snooks 
as  I  am  saying  so ! 

—  Get  out,  you  dirt!  A  strangely  striking  part  of  speech  for 
the  hottest  worked  word  of  ur  sprogue.  You're  not!  Unhindered 
and  odd  times?  Mere  thumbshow?  Lately? 

—  How  do  I  know?  Such  my  billet.  Buy  a  barrack  pass.  Ask 
the  horneys.  Tell  the  robbers. 

—  You  are  alluding  to  the  picking  pockets  in  Lower  O'Connell 
Street? 

—  I  am  illuding  to  the  Pekin  packet  but  I  am  eluding  from 
Laura  Connor's  treat. 

—  Now,  just  wash  and  brush  up  your  memoirias  a  little  bit. 
So  I  find,  referring  to  the  pater  of  the  present  man,  an  erely  de- 
mented brick  thrower,  I  am  wondering  to  myself  in  my  mind, 

qua  our  arc  of  the  covenant,  was  Toucher,  a  methodist,  whose  c^a^'^^ 
name,  as  others  say,  is  not  really  *Thom',  was  this  salt  son  of  a 
century  from  Boaters  town.  Shivering  William,  the  scaliest  old  for- 
ker  ever  hawked  crannock,  who  is  always  with  him  at  the  Big  Elm 

507 


I 


and  the  Arch  after  his  teeth  were  shaken  out  of  their  suckets  by  the 
wrang  dog,  for  having  5  pints  73  of  none  Eryen  blood  in  him  abaft 
the  seam  level,  the  scatterling,  wearing  his  cowbeamer  and  false 
clothes  of  a  brewer's  grains  pattern  with  back  buckons  with  his 
motto  on,  Yule  Remember^  ostensibly  for  that  occasion  only  of  the 
twelfth  day  Pax  and  Quantum  wedding,  Tm  wondering. 

—  I  bet  you  are.  Well,  he  was  wandering,  you  bet,  whatever 
was  his  matter,  in  his  mind  too,  give  him  his  due,  for  I  am  sorry 
to  have  to  tell  you,  hullo  and  evoe,  they  were  coming  down  from 
off  him. 

—  How  culious  an  epiphany! 

—  Hodie  casus  esohhrakonton? 

—  It  looked  very  like  it. 

—  Needer  knows  necess  and  neither  garments.  Man  is  minded 
of  the  Meagher,  wat.^  Wooly.^  Walty.^ 

—  Ay,  another  good  button  gone  wrong. 

—  Blondman's  blaff!  Like  a  skib  leaked  lintel  the  arbour 
leidend  with  .  .  .? 

—  Pamelas,  peggylees,  pollywoUies,  questuants,  quaint- 
aquilties,  quickamerries. 

—  Concaving  now  convexly  to  the  semidemihemispheres  and, 
from  the  female  angle,  music  minnestirring,  were  the  subligate 
sisters,  P.  and  Q.,  Clopatrick's  cherierapest,  mutatis  mutandis^ 
in  pretty  much  the  same  pickle,  the  peach  of  all  piedom,  the 
quest  of  all  quicks.'^ 

—  Peequeen  ourselves,  the  prettiest  pickles  of  unmatchemable 
mute  antes  I  ever  bopeeped  at,  seesaw  shallshee,  since  the  town  go 
went  gonning  on  Pranksome  Quaine. 

—  Silks  apeel  and  sulks  alusty? 

—  Boy  and  giddle,  gape  and  bore. 

—  I  hear  these  two  goddesses  are  liable  to  sue  him.^ 

—  Well,  I  hope  the  two  Collinses  don't  leg  a  bail  to  shoot  him. 

—  Both  were  white  in  black  arpists  at  cloever  spilling,  knickt? 

—  Gels  bach,  I,  languised,  liszted.  Etoudies  for  the  right  hand. 

—  Were  they  now?  And  were  they  watching  you  as  watcher 
as  well? 

508 


! 
i 

i 

I 


i 


—  Where  do  you  get  that  wash?  This  representation  does  not 
accord  with  my  experience.  They  were  watching  the  watched 
watching.  Vechers  all. 

—  Good.  Hold  that  watching  brief  and  keep  this  witching 
longuer.  Now,  retouching  friend  Tomsky,  the  enemy,  did  you 
gather  much  from  what  he  let  drop?  We  are  sitting  here  for  that. 

—  I  was  rooshian  mad,  no  lie.  About  his  shapeless  hat. 

—  I  suspect  you  must  have  been. 

—  You  are  making  your  thunderous  mistake.  But  I  was  dung 
sorry  for  him  too. 

—  O  Schaum!  Not  really?  Were  you  sorry  you  were  mad 
with  him  then? 

—  When  I  tell  you  I  was  rooshiamarodnimad  with  myself 
altogether,  so  I  was,  for  being  sorry  for  him. 

—  So? 

—  Absolutely. 

—  Would  you  blame  him  at  all  stages? 

—  I  believe  in  many  an  old  stager.  But  what  seemed  sooth  to 
a  Greek  summed  nooth  to  a  giantle.  Who  kills  the  cat  in  Cairo 
coaxes  cocks  in  Gaul. 

—  I  put  it  to  you  that  this  was  solely  in  his  sunflower  state 
and  that  his  haliodraping  het  was  why  maids  all  sighed  for  him, 
ventured  and  vied  for  him.  Hm? 

—  After  Putawayo,  Kansas,  Liburnum  and  New  Aimstir- 
dames,  it  wouldn't  surprise  me  in  the  very  least. 

—  That  tare  and  this  mole,  your  tear  and  our  smile.  'Tis  life 
that  lies  if  woman's  eyes  have  been  our  old  undoing.  Lid  efter  lid. 
Reform  in  mine  size  his  deformation.  Tiffpuff  up  my  nostril, 
would  you  puff  the  earthworm  outer  my  ear. 

—  He  could  claud  boose  his  eyes  to  the  birth  of  his  garce,  he 
could  lump  all  his  lot  through  the  half  of  her  play,  but  he  jest 
couldn't  laugh  through  the  whole  of  her  farce  becorpse  he  warn't 
billed  that  way.  So  he  outandouts  his  volimetangere  and  has  a 
lightning  consultation  and  he  downadowns  his  pantoloogions 
and  made  a  piece  of  first  perpersonal  puetry  that  staystale  re- 
mains to  be.  Cleaned. 

509 


—  Booms  of  bombs  and  heavy  rethudders? 

—  This  aim  to  you! 

—  The  tail,  so  mastrodantic,  as  you  tell  it  nearly  takes  your 
own  mummouth's  breath  away.  Your  troppers  are  so  unrelieved 
because  his  troopers  were  in  difficulties.  Still  let  stultitiam  done 
in  veino  condone  ineptias  made  of  veritues.  How  many  were 
married  on  that  top  of  all  strapping  mornings,  after  the  midnight 
turkay  drive,  my  good  watcher? 

—  Puppaps.  That'd  be  telling.  With  a  hoh  frohim  and  heh 
fraher.  But,  as  regards  to  Tammy  Thornycraft,  Idefyne  the  lawn 
mare  and  the  laney  moweress  and  all  the  prentisses  of  wildes  to 
massage  him. 

—  Now  from  Gunner  Shotland  to  Guinness  Scenography. 
Come  to  the  ballay  at  the  Tailors'  Hall.  We  mean  to  be  mellay  on 
the  Mailers'  Mall.  And  leap,  rink  and  make  follay  till  the  Gaelers' 
Gall.  Awake!  Come,  a  wake!  Every  old  skin  in  the  leather  world, 
infect  the  whole  stock  company  of  the  old  house  of  the  Leaking 
Barrel,  was  thomistically  drunk,  two  by  two,  lairking  o'  tootlers 
with  tombours  a'beggars,  the  blog  and  turfs  and  the  brandywine 
bankrompers,  trou  Normend  fashion,  I  have  been  told,  down  to 
the  bank  lean  clorks.'*  Some  nasty  blunt  clubs  were  being  operated 
after  the  tradition  of  a  wellesleyan  bottle  riot  act  and  a  few  plates 
were  being  shied  about  and  tumblers  bearing  traces  of  fresh 
porter  rolling  around,  independent  of  that,  for  the  ehren  of  Fyn's 
Insul,  and  then  followed  that  wapping  breakfast  at  the  Heaven 
and  Covenant,  with  Rodey  O'echolowing  how  his  breadcost  on 
the  voters  would  be  a  comeback  for  e'er  a  one,  like  the  depre- 
dations of  Scandalknivery,  in  and  on  usedtowobble  sloops  off 
cloasts,  eh?  Would  that  be  a  talltale  too?  This  was  the  grandsire 
Orther.  This  was  his  innwhite  horse.  Sip? 

—  Well,  naturally  he  was,  louties  also  genderymen.  Being 
Kerssfesstiydt.  They  came  from  all  lands  beyond  the  wave  for 
songs  of  Inishfeel.  Whiskway  and  mortem !  No  puseyporcious 
either,  invitem  kappines  all  round.  But  the  right  reverend  priest, 
Mr  Hopsinbond,  and  the  reverent  bride  eleft,  Frizzy  Fraufrau, 
were  sober  enough.  I  think  they  were  sober. 

510 


i 


I 


► 


—  I  think  you're  widdershins  there  about  the  right  reverence. 
Magraw  for  the  Northwhiggern  cupteam  was  wedding  beastman, 
papers  before  us  carry.  You  saw  him  hurriedly,  or  did  you  if 
thatseme's  not  irrelevant?  With  Slater's  hammer  perhaps?  Or  he 
was  in  serge? 

—  I  horridly  did.  On  the  stroke  of  the  dozen.  I'm  sure  I'm 
wrong  but  I  heard  the  irreverend  Mr  Magraw,  in  search  of  a 
stammer,  kuckkuck  kicking  the  bedding  out  of  the  old  sexton, 
red-Fox  Good-man  around  the  sacristy,  till  they  were  bullbeadle 
black  and  bufeteer  blue,  while  I  and  Flood  and  the  other  men, 
jazzlike  brollies  and  sesuos,  was  gickling  his  missus  to  gackles  in 
the  hall,  the  divileen,  (she's  a  lamp  in  her  throth)  with  her 
cygncygn  leckle  and  her  twelve  pound  lach. 

—  A  loyal  wifish  woman  cacchinic  wheepingcaugh !  While 
she  laylylaw  was  all  their  rage.  But  you  did  establish  personal 
contact?  In  epexegesis  or  on  a  point  of  order? 

—  That  perkumiary  pond  is  beyawnd  my  pinnigay  pre- 
tonsions.  I  am  resting  on  a  pigs  of  cheesus  but  I've  a  big 
suggestion  it  was  about  the  pint  of  porter. 

—  You  are  a  suckersome !  But  this  all,  as  airs  said  to  oska, 
was  only  that  childbearer  might  blogas  well  sidesplit?  Where 
letties  hereditate  a  dark  mien  swart  hairy? 

—  Only.  'Twas  womans'  too  woman  with  mans'  throw  man. 

—  Bully  burley  yet  hardly  hurley.  The  saloon  bulkhead,  did 
you  say,  or  the  tweendecks? 

—  Between  drinks,  I  deeply  painfully  repeat  it. 

—  Was  she  wearing  shubladey's  tiroirs  in  humour  of  her 
hubbishobbis,  Massa's  star  stellar? 

—  Mrs  Tan-Taylour?  Just  a  floating  panel,  secretairslid- 
ingdraws,  a  budge  of  klees  on  her  schalter,  a  siderbrass  sehdass 
on  her  anulas  findring  and  forty  crocelips  in  her  curlingthongues. 

—  So  this  was  the  dope  that  woolied  the  cad  that  kinked  the 
ruck  that  noised  the  rape  that  tried  the  sap  that  hugged  the  mort? 

—  That  legged  in  the  hoax  that  joke  bilked. 

—  The  jest  of  junk  the  jungular? 

—  Jacked  up  in  a  jock  the  wrapper. 

511 


—  Lollgoll!  You  don't  soye  so!  All  upsydown  her  whole 
creation?  So  there  was  nothing  serical  between  you?  And  Dry- 
salter,  father  of  Izod,  how  was  he  now? 

—  To  the  pink,  man,  like  an  allmanox  in  his  shirt  and  stickup, 
brustall  to  the  bear,  the  Megalomagellan  of  our  winevatswater- 
way,  squeezing  the  life  out  of  the  liffey. 

—  Crestofer  Carambas!  Such  is  zodisfaction.  You  punk  me! 
He  came,  he  kished,  he  conquered.  Vulturuvarnar !  The  must  of 
his  glancefull  coaxing  the  beam  in  her  eye?  That  musked  bell  of 
this  masked  ball!  Annabella,  Lovabella,  Pullabella,  yep? 

—  Yup !  Titentung  Tollertone  in  S.  Sabina's.  Aye  aye,  she 
