Step  out  of  your  shell!  Hold  up  you  free  fing!  Yes.  We've  light 
enough.  I  won't  take  our  laddy's  lampern.  For  them  four  old 
windbags  of  Gustsofairy  to  be  blowing  at.  Nor  you  your  ruck- 
sunck.  To  bring  all  the  dannymans  out  after  you  on  the  hike.  Send 
Arctur  guiddus!  Isma!  Sft!  It  is  the  softest  morning  that  ever  I 
can  ever  remember  me.  But  she  won't  rain  showerly,  our  lima.  Yet. 
Until  it's  the  time.  And  me  and  you  have  made  our.  The  sons  of 
bursters  won  in  the  games.  Still  I'll  take  me  owld  Finvara  for  my 
shawlders.  The  trout  will  be  so  fine  at  brookfisht.  With  a  taste 
of  roly  polony  from  Blugpuddels  after.  To  bring  out  the  tang  of 
the  tay.  Is't  you  fain  for  a  roost  brood. Oaxmealturn,  all  out  of 
the  woolpalls !  And  then  all  the  chippy  young  cuppinjars  clutter- 
ing round  us,  clottering  for  their  creams.  Crying,  me,  grownup 
sister!  Are  me  not  truly .'^  Lst!  Only  but,  theres  a  but,  you  must 
buy  me  a  fine  new  girdle  too,  nolly.  When  next  you  go  to  Market 
Norwall.  They're  all  saying  I  need  it  since  the  one  from  Isaacsen's 
slooped  its  line.  Mrknrk.'^  Fy  arthou !  Come !  Give  me  your  great 
bearspaw,  padder  avilky,  fol  a  miny  tiny.  Dola.  Mineninecy- 
handsy,  in  the  languo  of  flows.  That's  Jorgen  Jargonsen.  But  you 
understood,  nodst.^  I  always  know  by  your  brights  and  shades. 
Reach  down.  A  lil  mo.  So.  Draw  back  your  glave.  Hot  and  hairy, 
hugon,  is  your  hand !  Here's  where  the  falskin  begins.  Smoos  as 
an  infams.  One  time  you  told  you'd  been  burnt  in  ice.  And  one 
time  it  was  chemicalled  after  you  taking  a  lifeness.  Maybe  that's 
why  you  hold  your  hodd  as  if.  And  people  thinks  you  missed  the 
scaflbld.  Of  fell  design.  I'll  close  me  eyes.  So  not  to  see.  Or  see  only 
a  youth  in  his  florizel,  a  boy  in  innocence,  peeling  a  twig,  a  child  be- 
side a  weeny  white  steed.  The  child  we  all  love  to  place  our  hope  in 
for  ever.  All  men  has  done  something.  Be  the  time  they've  come  to 
the  weight  of  old  fletch.  We'll  lave  it.  So.  We  will  take  our  walk 
before  in  the  timpul  they  ring  the  earthly  bells.  In  the  church 
by  the  hearseyard.  Pax  Goodmens  will.  Or  the  birds  start  their 
treestirm  shindy.  Look,  there  are  yours  off",  high  on  high !  And 

621 


cooshes,  sweet  good  luck  tJiey're  cawing  you,  Coole!  You  see, 
they're  as  white  as  the  riven  snae.  For  us.  Next  peaters  poll  you 
will  be  dieted  or  Fm  not  your  elicitous  bribe.  The  Kinsella 
woman's  man  will  never  reduce  me.  A  MacGarath  O'CuUagh 
O'Muirk  MacFewney  sookadoodling  and  sweepacheeping  round 
the  lodge  of  Fjorn  na  Galla  of  the  Trumpets!  It's  like  potting  the 
po  to  shambe  on  the  dresser  or  tamming  Uncle  Tim's  Caubeen 
on  to  the  brows  of  a  Viker  Eagle.  Not  such  big  strides,  buddy 
foddy!  You'll  crush  me  antilopes  I  saved  so  long  for.  They're 
Penisole's.  And  the  two  goodiest  shoeshoes.  It  is  hardly  a  Knut's 
mile  or  seven,  possumbotts.  It  is  very  good  for  the  health  of  a 
morning.  With  Buahbuah.  A  gentle  motion  all  around.  As 
leisure  paces.  And  the  helpyourselftoastrool  cure's  easy.  It  seems 
so  long  since,  ages  since.  As  if  you  had  been  long  far  away. 
Afartodays,  afeartonights,  and  me  as  with  you  in  thadark.  You 
will  tell  me  some  time  if  I  can  believe  its  all.  You  know  where 
I  am  bringing  you.'^  You  remember.^  When  I  ran  berrying  after 
bucks  and  haws.  With  you  drawing  out  great  aims  to  hazel  me 
from  the  hummock  with  your  sling.  Our  cries.  I  could  lead  you 
there  and  I  still  by  you  in  bed.  Les  go  dutc  to  Danegreven, 
nos.'^  Not  a  soul  but  ourselves.  Time.'^  We  have  loads  on  our 
hangs.  Till  Gilligan  and  Halligan  call  again  to  hooligan.  And 
the  rest  of  the  guns.  Sullygan  eight,  from  left  to  right.  Olobobo, 
ye  foxy  theagues!  The  moskors  thought  to  ball  you  out.  Or 
the  Wald  Unicorns  Master,  Bugley  Captain,  from  the  Naul,  drawls 
up  by  the  door  with  the  Honourable  Whilp  and  the  Reverend 
Poynter  and  the  two  Lady  Pagets  of  Tallyhaugh,  Ballyhuntus, 
in  their  riddletight  raiding  hats  for  to  lift  a  hereshealth  to  their 
robost,  the  Stag,  evers  the  Carlton  hart.  And  you  needn't  host 
out  with  your  duck  and  your  duty,  capapole,  while  they  reach 
him  the  glass  he  never  starts  to  finish.  Clap  this  wis  on  your  poll 
and  stick  this  in  your  ear,  wiggly!  Beauties  don't  answer  and  the 
rich  never  pays.  If  you  were  the  enlarged  they'd  hue  in  cry  you, 
Heathtown,  Harbourstown,  Snowtown,  Four  Knocks,  Fleming- 
town,  Bodingtown  to  the  Ford  of  Fyne  on  Delvin.  How  they 
housed  to  house  you  after  the  Platonic  garlens!  And  all  because, 

622 


loosed  in  her  reflexes,  she  seem  she  seen  Ericoricori  coricome 
huntsome  with  his  three  poach  dogs  aleashing  him.  But  you  came 
safe  through.  Enough  of  that  horner  corner!  And  old  mutther- 
goosip!  We  might  call  on  the  Old  Lord,  what  do  you  say?  There's 
something  tells  me.  He  is  a  fine  sport.  Like  the  score  and  a  moighty 
went  before  him.  And  a  proper  old  promnentory.  His  door 
always  open.  For  a  newera's  day.    Much  as  your  own  is.  You 
invoiced  him  last  Eatster  so  he  ought  to  give  us  hockockles  and 
everything.  Remember  to  take  off  your  white  hat,  ech.'^  When 
we  come  in  the  presence.  And  say  hoothoothoo,  ithmuthisthy ! 
His  is  house  of  laws.  And  FU  drop  my  graciast  kertssey  too.  If 
the  Ming  Tung  no  go  bo  to  me  homage  me  hamage  kow  bow 
tow  to  the  Mong  Tang.  Ceremonialness  to  stand  lowest  place 
be!  Saying:  What'll  you  take  to  link  to  light  a  pike  on  porpoise, 
plaise.'^  He  might  knight  you  an  Armor  elsor  daub  you  the  first 
cheap  magyerstrape.  Remember  Bomthomanew  vim  vam  vom 
Hungerig.  Hoteform,  chain  and  epolettes,  botherbumbose.  And 
ril  be  your  aural  eyeness.  But  we  vain.  Plain  fancies.  It's  in  the 
castles  air.  My  currant  bread's  full  of  sillymottocraft.  Aloof  is 
anoof.  We  can  take  or  leave.  He's  reading  his  ruffs.  You'll  know 
our  way  from  there  surely,  Flura's  way.  Where  once  we  led  so 
many  car  couples  have  follied  since.  Clatchka!  Giving  Shaugh- 
nessy's  mare  the  hillymount  of  her  life.  With  her  strulldeburg- 
ghers!  Hnmn  hnmn!  The  rollcky  road  adondering.  We  can  sit 
us  down  on  the  heathery  benn,  me  on  you,  in  quolm  uncon- 
sciounce.  To  scand  the  arising.  Out  from  Drumleek.  It  was  there 
Evora  told  me  I  had  best.  If  I  ever.  When  the  moon  of  mourning 
is  set  and  gone.  Over  Glinaduna.  Lonu  nula.  Ourselves,  oursouls 
alone.  At  the  site  of  salvocean.  And  watch  would  the  letter  you're 
wanting  be  coming  may  be.  And  cast  ashore.  That  I  prays  for 
be  mains  of  me  draims.  Scratching  it  and  patching  at  with  a 
prompt  from  a  primer.  And  what  scrips  of  nutsnolleges  I  pecked 
up  me  meself.  Every  letter  is  a  hard  but  yours  sure  is  the  hardest 
crux  ever.  Hack  an  axe,  hook  an  oxe,  hath  an  an,  heth  hith  ences. 
But  once  done,  dealt  and  delivered,  tattat,  you're  on  the  map. 
Rased  on  traumscrapt  from  Maston,  Boss.  After  rounding  his 

623 


world  of  ancient  days.  Carried  in  a  caddy  or  screwed  and  corked. 
On  his  mugisstosst  surface.  With  a  bob,  bob,  bottledby.  Blob. 
When  the  waves  give  up  yours  the  soil  may  for  me.  Sometime 
then,  somewhere  there,  I  wrote  me  hopes  and  buried  the  page 
when  I  heard  Thy  voice,  ruddery  dunner,  so  loud  that  none  but, 
and  left  it  to  lie  till  a  kissmiss  coming.  So  content  me  now.  Lss. 
Unbuild  and  be  buildn  our  bankaloan  cottage  there  and  we'll 
cohabit  respectable.  The  Gowans,  ser,  for  Medem,  me.  With 
acute  bubel  runtoer  for  to  pippup  and  gopeep  where  the  sterres 
be.  Just  to  see  would  we  hear  how  Jove  and  the  peers  talk.  Amid 
the  soleness.  Tilltop,  bigmaster!  Scale  the  summit!  You're  not 
so  giddy  any  more.  All  your  graundplotting  and  the  little  it 
brought!  Humps,  when  you  hised  us  and  dumps,  when  you 
doused  us!  But  sarra  one  of  me  cares  a  brambling  ram,  pomp 
porteryark!  On  limpidy  marge  I've  made  me  hoom.  Park  and  a 
pub  for  me.  Only  don't  start  your  stunts  of  Donachie's  yeards 
agoad  again.  I  could  guessp  to  her  name  who  tuckt  you  that  one,  tuf- 
nut!  Bold  bet  backwords.  For  the  loves  of  sinfintins!  Before  the 
naked  universe.  And  the  bailby  pleasemarm  rincing  his  eye!  One 
of  these  fine  days,  lewdy  culler,  you  must  redoform  again. 
Blessed  shield  Martin!  Softly  so.  I  am  so  exquisitely  pleased  about 
the  loveleavest  dress  I  have.  You  will  always  call  me  Leafiest, 
won't  you,  dowling.'*  WordherfhuU  Ohldhbhoy!  And  you  won't 
urbjunk  to  me  parafume,  oiled  of  kolooney,  with  a  spot  of  mara- 
shy.  Sm!  It's  Alpine  Smile  from  Yesthers  late  Yhesters.  I'm  in 
every  wince  nasturtls.  Even  in  Houlth's  nose.  Medeurscodeignus ! 
Astale  of  astoun.  Grand  owld  marauder!  If  I  knew  who  you  are! 
When  that  hark  from  the  air  said  it  was  Captain  Fin  sen  makes  cum- 
hulments  and  was  mayit  pressing  for  his  suit  I  said  are  you  there 
here's  nobody  here  only  me.  But  I  near  fell  off  the  pile  of  samples. 
As  if  your  tinger  winged  ting  to  me  hear.  Is  that  right  what 
your  brothermilk  in  Bray  bes  telling  the  district  you  were  bragged 
up  by  Brostal  because  your  parents  would  be  always  tumbling 
into  his  foulplace  and  losing  her  pentacosts  after  drinking  their 
pledges.'^  Howsomendeavour,  you  done  me  fine!  The  only  man 
was  ever  known  could  eat  the  crushts  of  lobsters.  Our  native 

624 


night  when  you  twicetook  me  for  some  Marienne  Sherry  and 
then  your  Jermyn  cousin  who  signs  hers  with  exes  and  the  beard- 
wig  I  found  in  your  Clarksome  bag.  Pharaops  you'll  play  you're 
the  king  of  Aeships.  You  certainly  make  the  most  royal  of  noises. 
I  will  tell  you  all  sorts  of  makeup  things,  strangerous.  And  show 
you  to  every  simple  storyplace  we  pass.  Cadmillersjolly^  Bellevenue^ 
Wellcrom^  Quid  Superabit^  villities  valleties.  Change  the  plates 
for  the  next  course  of  murphies!  Spendlove's  still  there  and  the 
canon  going  strong  and  so  is  Claffey's  habits  endurtaking  and 
our  parish  pomp's  a  great  warrent.  But  you'll  have  to  ask  that 
same  four  that  named  them  is  always  snugging  in  your  bar- 
salooner,  saying  they're  the  best  relicts  of  Conal  O 'Daniel  and 
writing  Finglas  since  the  Flood,  That'll  be  some  kingly  work  in  pro- 
gress. But  it's  by  this  route  he'll  come  some  morrow.  And  I 
can  signal  you  all  flint  and  fern  are  rasstling  as  we  go  by.  And 
you'll  sing  thumb  a  bit  and  then  wise  your  selmon  on  it.  It  is  all 
so  often  and  still  the  same  to  me.  Snf?  Only  turf,  wick  dear!  Clane 
turf.  You've  never  forgodden  batt  on  tarf,  have  you,  at  broin 
burroow,  what.^  Mch?  Why,  them's  the  muchrooms,  come  up 
during  the  night.  Look,  agres  of  roofs  in  parshes.  Dom  on  dam, 
dim  in  dym.  And  a  capital  part  for  Olympics  to  ply  at.  Steadyon, 
Cooloosus !  Mind  your  stride  or  you'll  knock.  While  I'm  dodging 
the  dustbins.  Look  what  I  found!  A  Until  pea.  And  look  at  here! 
This  cara  weeseed.  Pretty  mites,  my  sweetthings,  was  they  poor- 
loves  abandoned  by  wholawidey  world.'^  Neighboulotts  for  new- 
town.  The  Eblanamagna  you  behazyheld  loomening  up  out  of  the 
dumblynass.  But  the  still  sama  sitta.  I've  lapped  so  long.  As  you 
said.  It  fair  takes.  If  I  lose  my  breath  for  a  minute  or  two  don't 
speak,  remember!  Once  it  happened,  so  it  may  again.  Why  I'm 
all  these  years  within  years  in  soffran,  allbeleaved.  To  hide  away 
the  tear,  the  parted.  It's  thinking  of  all.  The  brave  that  gave  their. 
The  fair  that  wore.  All  them  that's  gunne.  I'll  begin  again  in  a 
jiffey.  The  nik  of  a  nad.  How  glad  you'll  be  I  waked  you!  My! 
How  well  you'll  feel!  For  ever  after.  First  we  turn  by  the  vagurin 
here  and  then  it's  gooder.  So  side  by  side,  turn  agate,  wedding- 
town,  laud  men  of  Londub!  I  only  hope  whole  the  heavens  sees 

625 


us.  For  I  feel  I  could  near  to  faint  away.  Into  the  deeps.  Anna- 
mores  leep.  Let  me  lean,  just  a  lea,  if  you  le,  bowldstrong  big- 
tider.  Allgearls  is  wea.  At  times.  So.  While  you're  adamant  evar. 
Wrhps,  that  wind  as  if  out  of  norewere!  As  on  the  night  of  the 
Apophanypes.  Jumpst  shootst  throbbst  into  me  mouth  like  a 
bogue  and  arrohs!  Ludegude  of  the  Lashlanns,  how  he  whips 
me  cheeks!  Sea,  seal  Here,  weir,  reach,  island,  bridge.  Where  you 
meet  I.  The  day.  Remember!  Why  there  that  moment  and  us 
two  only.'^  I  was  but  teen,  a  tiler's  dot.  The  swankysuits  was 
boosting  always,  sure  him,  he  was  like  to  me  fad.  But  the  swag- 
gerest  swell  off  Shackvulle  Strutt.  And  the  fiercest  freaky  ever 
followed  a  pining  child  round  the  sluppery  table  with  a  forkful 
of  fat.  But  a  king  of  whistlers.  Scieoula!  When  he'd  prop  me  atlas 
against  his  goose  and  light  our  two  candles  for  our  singers  duohs 
on  the  sewingmachine.  I'm  sure  he  squirted  juice  in  his  eyes  to 
make  them  flash  for  flightening  me.  Still  and  all  he  was  awful 
fond  to  me.  Who'll  search  for  Find  Me  Colours  now  on  the  hilly- 
droops  of  Vikloefells.'^  But  I  read  in  Tobecontinued's  tale  that  while 
blubles  blows  there'll  still  be  sealskers.  There'll  be  others  but  non 
so  for  me.  Yed  he  never  knew  we  seen  us  before.  Night  after 
night.  So  that  I  longed  to  go  to.  And  still  v/ith  all.  One  time  you'd 
stand  fornenst  me,  fairly  laughing,  in  your  bark  and  tan  billows  of 
branches  for  to  fan  me  coolly.  And  I'd  lie  as  quiet  as  a  moss.  And 
one  time  you'd  rush  upon  me,  darkly  roaring,  like  a  great  black 
shadow  with  a  sheeny  stare  to  perce  me  rawly.  And  I'd  frozen 
up  and  pray  for  thawe.  Three  times  in  all.  I  was  the  pet  of  everyone 
then.  A  princeable  girl.  And  you  were  the  pantymammy's  Vulking 
Corsergoth.  The  invision  of  Indelond.  And,  by  Thorror,  you 
looked  it!  My  lips  went  livid  for  from  the  joy  of  fear.  Like  almost 
now.  How.^  How  you  said  how  you'd  give  me  the  keys  of  me 
heart.  And  we'd  be  married  till  delth  to  uspart.  And  though  dev 
do  espart.  O  mine!  Only,  no,  now  it's  me  who's  got  to  give.  As 
duv  herself  div.  Inn  this  linn.  And  can  it  be  it's  nnow  fforvell.'* 
Illas !  I  wisht  I  had  better  glances  to  peer  to  you  through  this  bay- 
light's  growing.  But  you're  changing,  acoolsha,  you're  changing 
from  me,  I  can  feel.  Or  is  it  me  is.^  I'm  getting  mixed.  Brightening 

626 


up  and  tightening  down.  Yes,  you're  changing,  sonhusband,  and 
you're  turning,  I  can  feel  you,  for  a  daughterwife  from  the  hills 
again.  Imlamaya.  And  she  is  coming.  Swimming  in  my  hindmoist. 
Diveltaking  on  me  tail.  Just  a  whisk  brisk  sly  spry  spink  spank 
sprint  of  a  thing  theresomere,  saultering.  Saltarella  come  to  her 
own.  I  pity  your  oldself  I  was  used  to.  Now  a  younger's  there. 
Try  not  to  part !  Be  happy,  dear  ones !  May  I  be  wrong !  For  she'll 
be  sweet  for  you  as  I  was  sweet  when  I  came  down  out  of  me 
mother.  My  great  blue  bedroom,  the  air  so  quiet,  scarce  a  cloud. 
In  peace  and  silence.  I  could  have  stayed  up  there  for  always  only. 
It's  something  fails  us.  First  we  feel.  Then  we  fall.  And  let  her  rain 
now  if  she  likes.  Gently  or  strongly  as  she  likes.  Anyway  let  her 
rain  for  my  time  is  come.  I  done  me  best  when  I  was  let.  Think- 
ing always  if  I  go  all  goes.  A  hundred  cares,  a  tithe  of  troubles  and 
is  there  one  who  understands  me.'^  One  in  a  thousand  of  years  of 
the  nights.'^  All  me  life  I  have  been  lived  among  them  but  now 
they  are  becoming  lothed  to  me.  And  I  am  lothing  their  little 
warm  tricks.  And  lothing  their  mean  cosy  turns.  And  all  the 
greedy  gushes  out  through  their  small  souls.  And  all  the  lazy 
leaks  down  over  their  brash  bodies.  How  small  it's  all!  And  me 
letting  on  to  meself  always.  And  lilting  on  all  the  time.  I  thought 
you  were  all  glittering  with  the  noblest  of  carriage.  You're  only 
a  bumpkin.  I  thought  you  the  great  in  all  things,  in  guilt  and  in 
glory.  You're  but  a  puny.  Home !  My  people  were  not  their  sort 
out  beyond  there  so  far  as  I  can.  For  all  the  bold  and  bad  and 
bleary  they  are  blamed,  the  seahags.  No!  Nor  for  all  our  wild 
dances  in  all  their  wild  din.  I  can  seen  meself  among  them,  alla- 
niuvia  pulchrabelled.  How  she  was  handsome,  the  wild  Amazia, 
when  she  would  seize  to  my  other  breast!  And  what  is  she  weird, 
haughty  Niluna,  that  she  will  snatch  from  my  ownest  hair!  For 
'tis  they  are  the  stormies.  Ho  hang!  Hang  ho!  And  the  clash  of 
our  cries  till  we  spring  to  be  free.  Auravoles,  they  says,  never  heed 
of  your  name!  But  I'm  loothing  them  that's  here  and  all  I  lothe. 
Loonely  in  me  loneness.  For  all  their  faults.  I  am  passing  out.  O 
bitter  ending !  I'll  slip  away  before  they're  up.  They'll  never  see. 
Nor  know.  Nor  miss  me.  And  it's  old  and  old  it's  sad  and  old  it's 

627 


sad  and  weary  I  go  back  to  you,  my  cold  father,  my  cold  mad 
father,  my  cold  mad  feary  father,  till  the  near  sight  ^£,the-Jnere 
size  of  him^  the  moyles  and  moyles  of  it,  moananoaning,  makes  me 
seasilt  saltsick  and  I  rush,  my  only,  into  your  arms.  I  see  them 
rising !  Save  me  from  those  therrble  prongs !  Two  more.  Onetwo 
moremens  more.  So.  Avelaval.  My  leaves Jiave^rifted  from  me. 
AllJButonejclings^ll.  FU  bear  it  on  me.  To  remind  me  of.  Lff ! 
So  soft  this  morning,  ours.  Yes.  Carry  me  along,  taddy,  like  you 
done  through  the  toy  fair!  If  I  seen  him  bearing  down  on  me  now 
under  whitespread  wings  like  he'd  come  from  Arkangels,  I  sink 
Td  die  down  over  his  feet,  humbly  dumbly,  only  to  washup.  Yes, 
tid.  There's  where.  First.  We  pass  through  grass  behush  the  bush 
to.  Whish!  A  gull.  Gulls.  Far  calls.  Coming,  far!  End  here.  Us 
then.  Finn,  again!  Take.  Bussoftlhee,  mememormee!  Till  thous- 
endsthee.  Lps.  The  keys  to.  Given!  A  way  a  lone  a  last  a  loved  a 
long  the 


Paris, 
1922-1939. 


628 


f 


r 


A 


2  i 


2^ 


a.  5  ^  ,  ^     VY\  ^  r^.  ^  c        H  ^  Aiu KMn 


1^   pa-,.^^^^   -  2.'J^-'5<s4. 


■r,f 