
And  they  viterberated  each  other,  cams  et  coluber  with  the 
wildest  ever  wielded  since  Tarriestinus  lashed  Pissasphaltium. 

—  Unuchorn! 

—  Ungulant! 

—  Uvuloid! 

—  Uskybeak! 

And  bullfolly  answered  volleyball. 

Nuvoletta  in  her  lightdress,  spunn  of  sisteen  shimmers,  was 
looking  down  on  them,  leaning  over  the  bannistars  and  listening 
all  she  childishly  could.  How  she  was  brightened  when  Should- 
rups  in  his  glaubering  hochskied  his  welkinstuck  and  how  she 
was  overclused  when  Kneesknobs  on  his  zwivvel  was  makeact- 
-  ing  such  a  paulse  of  himshelp!  She  was  alone.  All  her  nubied 
companions  were  asleeping  with  the  squirrels.  Their  mivver, 
Mrs  Moonan,  was  off  in  the  Fuerst  quarter  scrubbing  the  back- 
steps  of  Number  28.  Fuvver,  that  Skand,  he  was  up  in  Norwood's 
sokaparlour,  eating  oceans  of  Voking's  Blemish.  Nuvoletta  lis- 
tened as  she  reflected  herself,  though  the  heavenly  one  with  his 
constellatria  and  his  emanations  stood  between,  and  she  tried  all 
she  tried  to  make  the  Mookse  look  up  at  her  (but  he  was  fore  too 
adiaptotously  farseeing)  and  to  make  the  Gripes  hear  how  coy 
she  could  be  (though  he  was  much  too  schystimatically  auricular 
about  his  ens  to  heed  her)  but  it  was  all  mild's  vapour  moist.  Not 
even  her  feignt  reflection,  Nuvoluccia,  could  they  toke  their 
gnoses  off  for  their  minds  with  intrepifide  fate  and  bungless 
curiasity,  were  conclaved  with  Heliogobbleus  and  Commodus 
and  Enobarbarus  and  whatever  the  coordinal  dickens  they  did 
as  their  damprauch  of  papyrs  and  buchstubs  said.  As  if  that  was 
their  spiration!  As  if  theirs  could  duiparate  her  queendim!  As  if 
she  would  be  third  perty  to  search  on  search  proceedings!  She 
tried  all  the  winsome  wonsome  ways  her  four  winds  had  taught 
her.  She  tossed  her  sfumastelliacinous  hair  like  la  princesse  de  la 
Petite  Bretagne  and  she  rounded  her  mignons  arms  like  Mrs 
Cornwallis-West  and  she  smiled  over  herself  like  the  beauty  of 
the  image  of  the  pose  of  the  daughter  of  the  queen  of  the  Em- 
perour  of  Irelande  and  she  sighed  after  herself  as  were  she  born 

157 


to  bride  with  Tristis  Tristior  Tristissimus.  But,  sweet  madonine, 
she  might  fair  as  well  have  carried  her  daisy's  worth  to  Florida. 
For  the  Mookse,  a  dogmad  Accanite,  were  not  amoosed  and  the 
Gripes,  a  dubliboused  Catalick,  wis  pinefully  obliviscent. 
— I  see,  she  sighed.  There  are  menner. 

The  siss  of  the  whisp  of  the  sigh  of  the  softzing  at  the  stir  of 
the  ver  grose  O  arundo  of  a  long  one  in  midias  reeds:  and  shades 
began  to  glidder  along  the  banks,  greepsing,  greepsing,  duusk 
unto  duusk,  and  it  was  as  glooming  as  gloaming  could  be  in  the 
waste  of  all  peacable  worlds.  Metamnisia  was  allsoonome  coloro- 
form  brune;  citherior  spiane  an  eaulande,  innemorous  and  un- 
numerose.  The  Mookse  had  a  sound  eyes  right  but  he  could  not 
all  hear.  The  Gripes  had  light  ears  left  yet  he  could  but  ill  see. 
He  ceased.  And  he  ceased,  tung  and  trit,  and  it  was  neversoever 
so  dusk  of  both  of  them.  But  still  Moo  thought  on  the  deeps  of 
the  undths  he  would  profoundth  come  the  morrokse  and  still 
Gri  feeled  of  the  scripes  he  would  escipe  if  by  grice  he  had  luck 
enoupes. 

Oh,  how  it  was  duusk!  From  Vallee  Maraia  to  Grasyaplaina, 
dormimust  echo!  Ah  dew!  Ah  dew!  It  was  so  duusk  that  the 
tears  of  night  began  to  fall,  first  by  ones  and  twos,  then  by  threes 
and  fours,  at  last  by  fives  and  sixes  of  sevens,  for  the  tired  ones 
were  wecking,  as  we  weep  now  with  them.  0/  0/  0!  Par  la 
pluie! 

Then  there  came  down  to  the  thither  bank  a  woman  of  no 
appearance  (I  believe  she  was  a  Black  with  chills  at  her  feet)  and 
she  gathered  up  his  hoariness  the  Mookse  motamourfully  where 
he  was  spread  and  carried  him  away  to  her  invisible  dwelling, 
thats  hights,  Aquila  Rapax^  for  he  was  the  holy  sacred  solem  and 
poshup  spit  of  her  boshop's  apron.  So  you  see  the  Mookse  he 
had  reason  as  I  knew  and  you  knew  and  he  knew  all  along.  And 
there  came  down  to  the  hither  bank  a  woman  to  all  important 
(though  they  say  that  she  was  comely,  spite  the  cold  in  her  heed) 
and,  for  he  was  as  like  it  as  blow  it  to  a  hawker's  hank,  she 
plucked  down  the  Gripes,  torn  panicky  autotone,  in  angeu  from 
his  limb  and  cariad  away  its  beotitubes  with  her  to  her  unseen 

IS8 


i 


shieling,  it  is,  De  Rore  Coeli.  And  so  the  poor  Gripes  got  wrong; 
for  that  is  always  how  a  Gripes  is,  always  was  and  always  will  ie. 
And  it  was  never  so  thoughtful  of  either  of  them.  And  there  were 
left  now  an  only  elmtree  and  but  a  stone.  Polled  with  pietrous, 
Sierre  but  saule.  O !  Yes !  And  Nuvoletta,  a  lass. 

Then  Nuvoletta  reflected  for  the  last  time  in  her  little  long  life 
and  she  made  up  all  her  myriads  of  drifting  minds  in  one.  She 
cancelled  all  her  engauzements.  She  climbed  over  the  bannistars; 
she  gave  a  childy  cloudy  cry:  Nueel  Nuee\  A  lightdress  fluttered. 
She  was  gone.  And  into  the  river  that  had  been  a  stream  (for  a 
thousand  of  tears  had  gone  eon  her  and  come  on  her  and  she  was 
stout  and  struck  on  dancing  and  her  muddied  name  was  Missis- 
liffi)  there  fell  a  tear,  a  singult  tear,  the  loveliest  of  all  tears  (I 
mean  for  those  crylove  fables  fans  who  are  'keen'  on  the  pretty- 
pretty  commonface  sort  of  thing  you  meet  by  hopeharrods)  for  it 
was  a  leaptear.  But  the  river  tripped  on  her  by  and  by,  lapping 
as  though  her  heart  was  brook:  JVhy^  why^  why!  Weh^  0  wehl 
Vse  so  silly  to  he  flowing  hut  I  no  canna  stay! 

No  applause,  please!  Bast!  The  romescot  nattleshaker  will  go 
round  your  circulation  in  diu  dursus, 

Allaboy,  Major,  I'll  take  your  reactions  in  another  place  after 
themes.  Nolan  Browne,  you  may  now  leave  the  classroom.  Joe 
Peters,  Fox. 

As  I  have  now  successfully  explained  to  you  my  own  natural- 
bom  rations  which  are  even  in  excise  of  my  vaultybrain  insure 
me  that  I  am  a  mouth's  more  deserving  case  by  genius.  I  feel  in 
symbathos  for  my  ever  devoted  friend  and  halfaloafonwashed, 
Gnaccus  Gnoccovitch.  Darling  gem!  Darling  smallfox!  Horose- 
shoew!  I  could  love  that  man  like  my  own  ambo  for  being  so 
baileycliaver  though  he's  a  nawful  curillass  and  I  must  slav  to 
methodiousness.  I  want  him  to  go  and  live  like  a  theabild  in 
charge  of  the  night  brigade  on  Tristan  da  Cunha,  isle  of  man- 
overboard,  where  he'll  make  Number  io6  and  be  near  Inacces- 
sible. (The  meeting  of  mahoganies,  be  the  waves,  rementious 
me  that  this  exposed  sight  though  it  pines  for  an  umbrella  of  its 
own  and  needs  a  shelter  belt  of  the  true  service  sort  to  keep  its 

159 


boles  clean,  —  the  weeping  beeches,  Picea  and  Tillia,  are  in  a 
wild  state  about  it  —  ought  to  be  classified,  as  Cricketbutt  Will- 
owm  and  his  two  nurserymen  advisers  suggested,  under  genus 
Inexhaustible  when  we  refloat  upon  all  the  butternat,  sweet  gum 
and  manna  ash  redcedera  which  is  so  purvulent  there  as  if  there 
was  howthorns  in  Curraghchasa  which  ought  to  look  as  plane 
as  a  lodgepole  to  anybody  until  we  are  introduced  to  that  pine- 
tacotta  of  Verney  Rubeus  where  the  deodarty  is  pinctured  for  us 
in  a  pure  stand,  which  we  do  not  doubt  ha  has  a  habitat  of  doing, 
but  without  those  selfsownseedlings  which  are  a  species  of  proof 
that  the  largest  individual  can  occur  at  or  in  an  olivetion  such  as 
East  Conna  Hillock  where  it  mixes  with  foolth  accacians  and 
common  sallies  and  is  tender)  Vux  Populus^  as  we  say  in  hickory- 
hockery  and  I  wish  we  had  some  more  glasses  of  arhor  vitae. 
Why  roat  by  the  roadside  or  awn  over  alum  pot?  Alderman 
Whitebeaver  is  dakyo.  He  ought  to  go  away  for  a  change  of 
ideas  and  he'd  have  a  world  of  things  to  look  back  on.  Do,  sweet 
Daniel!  If  I  weren't  a  jones  in  myself  I'd  elect  myself  to  be  his 
dolphin  in  the  wildsbillow  because  he  is  such  a  barefooted  rubber 
with  my  supersocks  pulled  over  his  face  which  I  publicked  in 
my  bestback  garden  for  the  laetification  of  siderodromites  and 
to  the  irony  of  the  stars.  You  will  say  it  is  most  unenglish  and 
I  shall  hope  to  hear  that  you  will  not  be  wrong  about  it.  But  I 
further,  feeling  a  bit  husky  in  my  truths. 

Will  you  please  come  over  and  let  us  mooremoore  murgessly 
to  each's  other  down  below  our  vices.  I  am  underheerd  by  old 
billfaust.  Wilsh  is  full  of  curks.  The  coolskittle  is  philip  debli- 
nite.  Mr  Wist  is  thereover  beyeind  the  wantnot.  Wilsh  and  wist 
are  as  thick  of  thins  udder  as  faust  on  the  deblinite.  Sgunoshooto 
estas  preter  la  tapizo  malgranda.  Lilegas  al  si  en  sia  chambro. 
Kelkefoje  funcktas,  kelkefoje  srumpas  Shultroj.  Houdian  Kiel  vi 
fartas,  mia  nigra  sinjoro.'*  And  from  the  poignt  of  fun  where  I 
am  crying  to  arrive  you  at  they  are  on  allfore  as  foibleminded  as 
you  can  feel  they  are  fablebodied. 

My  heeders  will  recoil  with  a  great  leisure  how  at  the  out- 
break before  trespassing  on  the  space  question  where  even 

1 60 


michelangelines  have  fooled  to  dread  I  proved  to  mindself  as  to 
your  sotisfiction  how  his  abject  all  through  (the  quickquid  of  Pro- 
fessor Ciondolone's  too  frequently  hypothecated  Bettlermensch) 
is  nothing  so  much  more  than  a  mere  cashdime  however  genteel 
he  may  want  ours,  if  we  please  (I  am  speaking  to  us  in  the  second 
person),  for  to  this  graded  intellecktuals  dime  is  cash  and  the 
cash  system  (you  must  not  be  allowed  to  forget  that  this  is  all 
contained,  I  mean  the  system,  in  the  dogmarks  of  origen  on 
spurios)  means  that  I  cannot  now  have  or  nothave  a  piece  of 
cheeps  in  your  pocket  at  the  same  time  and  with  the  same  man- 
ners as  you  can  now  nothalf  or  half  the  cheek  apiece  I've  in  mind 
unless  Burrus  and  Caseous  have  not  or  not  have  seemaultaneous- 
ly  sysentangled  themselves,  selldear  to  soldthere,  once  in  the 
dairy  days  of  buy  and  buy. 

Burrus,  let  us  like  to  imagine,  is  a  genuine  prime,  the  real 
choice,  full  of  natural  greace,  the  mildest  of  milkstoffs  yet  un- 
beaten as  a  risicide  and,  of  course,  obsoletely  unadulterous 
whereat  Caseous  is  obversely  the  revise  of  him  and  in  fact  not  an 
ideal  choose  by  any  meals,  though  the  betterman  of  the  two  is 
meltingly  addicted  to  the  more  casual  side  of  the  arrivaliste  case 
and,  let  me  say  it  at  once,  as  zealous  over  him  as  is  passably  he. 
The  seemsame  home  and  histry  seeks  and  hidepence  which  we 
used  to  be  reading  for  our  prepurgatory,  hot,  Schott.'^  till  Duddy 
shut  the  shopper  op  and  Mutti,  poor  Mutti!  brought  us  our  poor 
suppy,  (ah  who!  eh  how!)  in  Acetius  and  Oleosus  and  Sellius 
Volatilis  and  Petrus  Papricus !  Our  Old  Party  quite  united  round 
the  Slatbowel  at  Commons:  Pfarrer  Salamoss  himself  and  that 
sprog  of  a  Pedersill  and  his  Sprig  of  Thyme  and  a  dozen  of  the 
Murphybuds  and  a  score  and  more  of  the  hot  young  Capels  and 
Lettucia  in  her  greensleeves  and  you  too  and  me  three,  twinsome 
bibs  but  hansome  ates,  like  shakespill  and  eggs!  But  there's  many 
a  split  pretext  bowl  and  jowl;  and  (snob  screwing  that  cork, 
Schott!)  to  understand  this  as  well  as  you  can,  feeling  how  back- 
ward you  are  in  your  down-to-the-ground  benches,  I  have  com- 
pleted the  following  arrangement  for  the  coarse  use  of  stools  and 
if  I  don't  make  away  with  you  I'm  beyond  Caesar  outnullused. 

i6i 


The  older  sisars  (Tyrants,  regicide  is  too  good  for  you!)  be- 
come unbeurrable  from  age,  (the  compositor  of  the  farce  of 
dustiny  however  makes  a  thunpledrum  mistake  by  letting  off  this 
pienofarte  effect  as  his  furst  act  as  that  is  where  the  juke  comes 
in)  having  been  sort-of-nineknived  and  chewly  removed  (this 
soldier  -  author  -  batman  for  all  his  commontoryism  is  just 
another  of  those  souftsiezed  bubbles  who  never  quite  got  the 
Sandhurst  out  of  his  eyes  so  that  the  champaign  he  draws  for  us 
is  as  flop  as  a  plankrieg)  the  twinfreer  types  are  billed  to  make 
their  reupprearance  as  the  knew  kneck  and  knife  knickknots  on 
the  deserted  champ  de  bouteilles,  (A  most  cursery  reading  into  the 
Persic-Uraliens  hostery  shows  us  how  Fonnumagula  picked  up 
that  propper  numen  out  of  a  coUuction  of  prifixes  though  to 
the  permienting  cannasure  the  Coucousien  oafsprung  of  this 
sun  of  a  kuk  is  as  sattin  as  there's  a  tub  in  Tobolosk)  Osdak 
della  Vogul  Manna!  But  that  I  dannoy  the  fact  of  wanton  to 
weste  point  I  could  paint  you  to  that  butter  (cheese  it!)  if  you 
had  some  wash.  Mordvealive!  Oh  me  none  onsens!  Why  the 
case  is  as  inessive  and  impossive  as  kezom  hands!  Their  inter- 
locative  is  conprovocative  just  as  every  hazzy  hates  to  having  a 
hazbane  in  her  noze.  Caseous  may  bethink  limself  a  thought  of 
a  caviller  but  Burrus  has  the  reachly  roundered  head  that  goes 
best  with  thofthinking  defensive  fideism.  He  has  the  lac  of  wis- 
dom under  every  dent  in  his  lofter  while  the  other  follow's 
onni  vesy  milky  indeedmymy.  Laughing  over  the  linnuts  and 
weeping  off  the  uniun.  He  hisn't  the  hey  og  he  lisn't  the  lug, 
poohoo.  And  each  night  sim  misses  mand  he  winks  he  had  the 
semagen.  It  was  aptly  and  corrigidly  stated  (and,  it  is  royally 
needless  for  one  ex  imgue  Leonem  to  say  by  whom)  that  his 
seeingscraft  was  that  clarety  as  were  the  wholeborough  of  Poutres- 
bourg  to  be  averlaunched  over  him  pitchbatch  he  could  still  make 
out  with  his  augstritch  the  green  moat  in  Ireland's  Eye.  Let  me 
sell  you  the  fulltroth  of  Burrus  when  he  wore  a  younker.  Here 
it  is,  and  chorming  too,  in  six  by  sevens!  A  cleanly  line,  by  the 
gods!  A  king  off  duty  and  a  jaw  for  ever!  And  what  a  cheery 
ripe  outlook,  good  help  me  Deus  v  Deus!  If  I  were  to  speak 

162 


my  ohole  mouthful  to  arinam  about  it  you  should  call  me  the 
ormuzd  aliment  in  your  midst  of  faime.  Eat  ye  up,  heat  ye  up! 
sings  the  somun  in  the  salm.  Butyrum  et  mel  comedet  ut  sciat 
reprobare  malum  et  eligere  honum.  This,  of  course,  also  explains 
why  we  were  taught  to  play  in  the  childhood:  Der  Haensli  ist 
ein  Butterhrot^  mein  Butterhrot!  Und  Koebi  iss  dein  Schtinkenkotl 
JaJjaIJa! 

This  in  fact,  just  to  show  you,  is  Caseous,  the  brutherscutch 
or  puir  tyron:  a  hole  or  two,  the  highstinks  aforefelt  and  anygo 
prigging  wurms.  Cheesugh!  you  complain.  And  Hi  Hi  High 
must  say  you  are  not  Hoa  Hoa  Hoally  in  the  wrong! 

Thus  we  cannot  escape  our  likes  and  mislikes,  exiles  or  am- 
busheers,  beggar  and  neighbour  and  —  this  is  where  the  dime- 
show  advertisers  advance  the  temporal  relief  plea  —  let  us  be 
tolerant  of  antipathies.  Nex  quovis  burro  num  jit  mercaseusF  I  am 
not  hereby  giving  my  final  endorsement  to  the  learned  ignorants 
of  the  Cusanus  philosophism  in  which  old  Nicholas  pegs  it 
down  that  the  smarter  the  spin  of  the  top  the  sounder  the  span 
of  the  buttom  (what  the  worthy  old  auberginiste  ought  to  have 
meant  was:  the  more  stolidly  immobile  in  space  appears  to  me 
the  bottom  which  is  presented  to  use  in  time  by  the  top  primo- 
mobilisk  &c.).  And  I  shall  be  misunderstord  if  understood  to 
give  an  unconditional  sinequam  to  the  heroicised  furibouts  of 
the  Nolanus  theory,  or,  at  any  rate,  of  that  substrate  of  apart 
from  hissheory  where  the  Theophil  swoors  that  on  principial  he 
was  the  pointing  start  of  his  odiose  by  comparison  and  that  whiles 
eggs  will  fall  cheapened  all  over  the  walled  the  Bure  will  be  dear 
on  the  Brie. 

Now,  while  I  am  not  out  now  to  be  taken  up  as  unintention- 
ally recommending  the  Silkebjorg  tyrondynamon  machine  for 
the  more  economical  helixtrolysis  of  these  amboadipates  until 
I  can  find  space  to  look  into  it  myself  a  little  more  closely  first 
I  shall  go  on  with  my  decisions  after  having  shown  to  you  in 
good  time  how  both  products  of  our  social  stomach  (the  excellent 
Dr  Burroman,  I  noticed  by  the  way  from  his  emended  food 
theory,  has  been  carefully  digesting  the  very  wholesome  criticism 

163 


I  helped  him  to  in  my  princeps  edition  which  is  all  so  munch 
to  the  cud)  are  mutuearly  polarised  the  incompatabilily  of  any 
delusional  acting  as  ambivalent  to  the  fixation  of  his  pivotism. 
Positing,  as  above,  too  males  pooles,  the  one  the  pictor  of  the 
other  and  the  omber  the  Skoda  of  the  one,  and  looking  want- 
ingly  around  our  undistributed  middle  between  males  we  feel 
we  must  waistfully  woent  a  female  to  focus  and  on  this  stage 
there  pleasantly  appears  the  cowrymaid  M.  whom  we  shall 
often  meet  below  who  introduces  herself  upon  us  at  some  precise 
hour  which  we  shall  again  agree  to  call  absolute  zero  or  the 
babbling  pumpt  of  platinism.  And  so  like  that  former  son 
of  a  kish  who  went  up  and  out  to  found  his  farmer's  ashes  we 
come  down  home  gently  on  our  own  turnedabout  asses  to  meet 
Margareen. 

We  now  romp  through  a  period  of  pure  lyricism  of  shame- 
bred  music  (technologically,  let  me  say,  the  appetising  entry  of 
this  subject  on  a  fool  chest  of  vialds  is  plumply  pudding  the  carp 
before  doevre  hors)  evidenced  by  such  words  in  distress  as  / 
cream  for  thee^  Sweet  Margareen^  and  the  more  hopeful  0  Mar- 
gareena!  0  Margareena/  Still  in  the  bowl  is  left  a  lump  of  gold! 
(Correspondents,  by  the  way,  will  keep  on  asking  me  what  is  the 
correct  garnish  to  serve  drisheens  with.  Tansy  Sauce.  Enough). 
The  pawnbreaking  pathos  of  the  first  of  these  shoddy  pieces 
reveals  it  as  a  Caseous  effort.  Burrus's  bit  is  often  used  for  a  toast. 
Criniculture  can  tell  us  very  precisely  indeed  how  and  why  this 
particular  streak  of  yellow  silver  first  appeared  on  (not  in)  the 
bowel,  that  is  to  see,  the  human  head,  bald,  black,  bronze,  brown, 
brindled,  betteraved  or  blanchemanged  where  it  might  be  use- 
fully compared  with  an  earwig  on  a  fullbottom.  I  am  offering 
this  to  Signorina  Cuticura  and  I  intend  to  take  it  up  and  bring  it 
under  the  nosetice  of  Herr  Harlene  by  way  of  diverting  his 
attentions.  Of  course  the  unskilled  singer  continues  to  pervert 
our  wiser  ears  by  subordinating  the  space-element,  that  is  to 
sing,  the  ar/a,  to  the  time-factor,  which  ought  to  be  killed,  ill 
tempor,  I  should  advise  any  unborn  singer  who  may  still  be 
among  my  heeders  to  forget  her  temporal  diaphragm  at  home 

164 


(the  best  thing  that  could  happen  to  it!)  and  attack  the  roulade 
with  a  swift  colpo  di  glotdde  to  the  lug  (though  Maace  I  will 
insist  was  reclined  from  overdoing  this,  his  recovery  often  being 
slow)  and  then,  O !  on  the  third  dead  beat,  O !  to  cluse  her  eyes 
and  aiopen  her  oath  and  see  what  spice  I  may  send  her.  How? 
Cease  thee,  cantatrickee!  I  fain  would  be  solo.  Arouse  thee,  my 
valour!  And  save  for  e'er  my  true  Bdur! 

I  shall  have  a  word  to  say  in  a  few  yards  about  the  acoustic 
and  orchidectural  management  of  the  tonehall  but,  as  ours  is  a 
vivarious  where  one  plant's  breaf  is  a  lunger  planner's  byscent 
and  you  may  not  care  for  argon,  it  will  be  very  convenient  for 
me  for  the  emolument  to  pursue  Burrus  and  Caseous  for  a  rung 
or  two  up  their  isocelating  biangle.  Every  admirer  has  seen  my 
goulache  of  Marge  (she  is  so  like  the  sister,  you  don't  know,  and 
they  both  dress  ALIKE  !)  which  I  titled  The  Very  Picture  of 
a  Needlesswoman  which  in  the  presence  ornates  our  national 
cruetstand.  This  genre  of  portraiture  of  changes  of  mind  in  order 
to  be  truly  torse  should  evoke  the  bush  soul  of  females  so  I  am 
leaving  it  to  the  experienced  victim  to  complete  the  general 
suggestion  by  the  mental  addition  of  a  wallopy  bound  or,  should 
the  zulugical  zealot  prefer  it,  a  congorool  teal.  The  hatboxes 
which  composed  Rhomba,  lady  Trabezond  (Marge  in  her  ex- 
celsis)y  also  comprised  the  climactogram  up  which  B  and  C  may 
fondly  be  imagined  ascending  and  are  suggestive  of  gentlemen's 
spring  modes,  these  modes  carrying  us  back  to  the  superimposed 
claylayers  of  eocene  and  pleastoseen  formation  and  the  gradual 
morphological  changes  in  our  body  politic  which  Professor 
Ebahi-Ahuri  of  Philadespoinis  (111)  —  whose  bluebutterbust  I 
have  just  given  his  coupe  de  grass  to  —  neatly  names  a  hoite  d 
surprises.  The  boxes,  if  I  may  break  the  subject  gently,  are  worth 
about  fourpence  pourbox  but  I  am  inventing  a  more  patent  pro- 
cess, foolproof  and  pryperfect  (I  should  like  to  ask  that  Shedlock 
Homes  person  who  is  out  for  removing  the  roofs  of  our  criminal 
classics  by  what  deductio  ad  domunum  he  hopes  de  tacto  to  detect 
anything  unless  he  happens  of  himself,  movihile  tectu^  to  have  a 
slade  off)  after  which  they  can  be  reduced  to  a  fragment  of  their 

165 


true  crust  by  even  the  youngest  of  Margees  if  she  will  take  plase 
to  be  seated  and  smile  if  I  please. 

Now  there  can  be  no  question  about  it  either  that  I  having 
done  as  much,  have  quite  got  the  size  of  that  demilitery  young 
female  (we  will  continue  to  call  her  Marge)  whose  types  may  be 
met  with  in  any  public  garden,  wearing  a  very  "dressy"  affair, 
known  as  an  "ethel"  of  instep  length  and' with  a  real  fur,  reduced 
to  3/9,  and  muffin  cap  to  tone  (they  are  "angelskin"  this  fall), 
ostentatiously  hemming  apologetically  over  the  shirtness  of 
some  "sweet"  garment,  when  she  is  not  sitting  on  all  the  free 
benches  avidously  reading  about  "it"  but  ovidently  on  the  look 
out  for  "him"  or  so  "thrilled"  about  the  best  dressed  dolly  pram 
and  beautiful  elbow  competition  or  at  the  movies  swallowing 
sobs  and  blowing  bixed  mixcuits  over  "childe"  chaplain's  "latest" 
or  on  the  verge  of  the  gutter  with  some  bobbedhair  brieffrocked 
babyma's  toddler  (the  Smythe-Smythes  now  keep  TWO  domes- 
tics and  aspire  to  THREE  male  ones,  a  shover,  a  butlegger  and 
a  sectary)  held  hostage  at  armslength,  teaching  His  Infant 
Majesty  how  to  make  waters  worse. 

(I  am  closely  watching  Master  Pules,  as  I  have  regions  to  sus- 
pect from  my  post  that  her  "little  man"  is  a  secondary  school- 
teacher under  the  boards  of  education,  a  voted  disciple  of  Infan- 
tulus  who  is  being  utilised  thus  publicly  by  the  seducente  infanta 
to  conceal  her  own  more  mascular  personality  by  flaunting 
frivolish  finery  over  men's  inside  clothes,  for  the  femininny  of 
that  totamulier  will  always  lack  the  musculink  of  a  verumvirum. 
My  solotions  for  the  proper  parturience  of  matres  and  the  edu- 
cation of  micturious  mites  must  stand  over  from  the  moment  till 
I  tackle  this  tickler  hussy  for  occupying  my  uttentions.) 

Margareena  she's  very  fond  of  Burrus  but,  alick  and  alack! 
she  velly  fond  of  chee.  (The  important  influence  exercised  on 
everything  by  this  eastasian  import  has  not  been  till  now  fully 
flavoured  though  we  can  comfortably  taste  it  in  this  case.  I  shall 
come  back  for  a  little  more  say  farther  on.)  A  cleopatrician  in 
her  own  right  she  at  once  complicates  the  position  while  Burrus 
and  Caseous  are  contending  for  her  misstery  by  implicating  her- 

166 


self  with  an  elusive  Antonius,  a  wop  who  would  appear  to  hug 
a  personal  interest  in  refined  chees  of  all  chades  at  the  same  time 
as  he  wags  an  antomine  art  of  being  rude  like  the  boor.  This 
Antonius-Burrus-Caseous  grouptriad  may  be  said  to  equate 
the  qua/is  equivalent  with  the  older  socalled  talis  on  talis  one 
just  as  quantly  as  in  the  hyperchemical  economantarchy  the  tan- 
tum  ergons  irruminate  the  quantum  urge  so  that  eggs  is  to  whey 
as  whay  is  to  zeed  like  your  golfchild's  abe  boob  caddy.  And  this 
is  why  any  simple  philadolphus  of  a  fool  you  like  to  dress,  an 
athemisthued  lowtownian,  exlegged  phatrisight,  may  be  awfully 
green  to  one  side  of  him  and  fruitfully  blue  on  the  other  which 
will  not  screen  him  however  from  appealing  to  my  gropesarch- 
ing  eyes,  through  the  strongholes  of  my  acropoll,  as  a  boosted 
blasted  bleating  blatant  bloaten  blasphorus  blesphorous  idiot 
who  kennot  tail  a  bomb  from  a  painapple  when  he  steals  one 
and  wannot  psing  his  psalmen  with  the  cong  in  our  gregational 
pompoms  with  the  canting  crew. 

No!  Topsman  to  your  Tarpeia!  This  thing,  Mister  Abby,  is 
nefand.  (And,  taking  off  soutstufFs  and  alkalike  matters,  I  hope 
we  can  kill  time  to  reach  the  salt  because  there's  some  forceglass 
neutric  assets  bittering  in  the  soldpewter  for  you  to  plump  your 
pottage  in).  The  thundering  legion  has  stormed  Olymp  that 
it  end.  Twelve  tabular  times  till  now  have  I  edicted  it.  Merus 
Genius  to  Careous  Caseous!  Moriture,  te  salutat!  My  phemous 
themis  race  is  run,  so  let  Demoncracy  take  the  highmost!  (Abra- 
ham Tripier.  Those  old  diligences  are  quite  out  of  date.  Read 
next  answer).  I'll  beat  you  so  Ion.  (Bigtempered.  Why  not  take 
direct  action.  See  previous  reply).  My  unchanging  Word  is  sacred. 
The  word  is  my  Wife,  to  exponse  and  expound,  to  vend  and  to 
velnerate,  and  may  the  curlews  crown  our  nuptias!  Till  Breath 
us  depart!  Wamen.  Beware  would  you  change  with  my  years.  Be 
as  young  as  your  grandmother!  The  ring  man  in  the  rong  shop 
but  the  rite  words  by  the  rote  order!  Uhi  lingua  nuncupassit^  ibi 
fas!  Adversus  hostem  semper  sac!  She  that  will  not  feel  my  ful- 
moon  let  her  peel  to  thee  as  the  hoyden  and  the  impudent!  That 
mon  that  both  no  moses  in  his  sole  nor  is  not  awed  by  conquists 

167 


of  word's  law,  who  never  with  humself  was  fed  and  leaves 
his  soil  to  lave  his  head,  when  his  hope's  in  his  highlows  from 
whisking  his  woe,  if  he  came  to  my  preach,  a  proud  pursebroken 
ranger,  when  the  heavens  were  welling  the  spite  of  their  spout, 
to  beg  for  a  bite  i-n  our  bark  Noisdanger^  would  meself  and  Mac 
Jeffet,  four-in-hand,  foot  him  out?  —  ay!  —  were  he  my  own 
breastbrother,  my  doubled  withd  love  and  my  singlebiassed  hate, 
were  we  bread  by  the  same  fire  and  signed  with  the  same  salt, 
had  we  tapped  from  the  same  master  and  robbed  the  same  till, 
were  we  tucked  in  the  one  bed  and  bit  by  the  one  flea,  homo- 
gallant  and  hemycapnoise,  bum  and  dingo,  jack  by  churl,  though 
it  broke  my  heart  to  pray  it,  still  I'd  fear  I'd  hate  to  say! 

12.  Sacer  esto^ 

Answer:  Semus  sumus! 


i68 


Shem  is  as  short  for  Shemus  as  Jem  is  joky  for  Jacob.  A  few 
toughnecks  are  still  getatable  who  pretend  that  aboriginally  he 
was  of  respectable  stemming  (he  was  an  outlex  between  the  lines 
of  Ragonar  Blaubarb  and  Horrild  Hairwire  and  an  inlaw  to  Capt. 
the  Hon.  and  Rev.  Mr  Bbyrdwood  de  Trop  Blogg  was  among 
his  most  distant  connections)  but  every  honest  to  goodness  man 
in  the  land  of  the  space  of  today  knows  that  his  back  Hfe  will 
not  stand  being  written  about  in  black  and  white.  Putting  truth 
and  untruth  together  a  shot  may  be  made  at  what  this  hybrid 
actually  was  like  to  look  at. 

Shem's  bodily  getup,  it  seems,  included  an  adze  of  a  skull,  an 
eight  of  a  larkseye,  the  whoel  of  a  nose,  one  numb  arm  up  a 
sleeve,  fortytwo  hairs  off  his  uncrown,  eighteen  to  his  mock  lip, 
a  trio  of  barbels  from  his  megageg  chin  (sowman's  son),  the 
wrong  shoulder  higher  than  the  right,  all  ears,  an  artificial 
tongue  with  a  natural  curl,  not  a  foot  to  stand  on,  a  handful  of 
thumbs,  a  blind  stomach,  a  deaf  heart,  a  loose  liver,  two  fifths  of 
two  buttocks,  one  gleetsteen  avoirdupoider  for  him,  a  manroot 
of  all  evil,  a  salmonkelt's  thinskin,  eelsblood  in  his  cold  toes,  a 
bladder  tristended,  so  much  so  that  young  Master  Shemmy  on 
his  very  first  debouch  at  the  very  dawn  of  protohistory  seeing 
himself  such  and  such,  when  playing  with  thistlewords  in  their 
garden  nursery,  Griefotrofio,  at  Phig  Streat  iii,  Shuvlin,  Old 
Hoeland,  (would  we  go  back  there  now  for  sounds,  pillings  and 

169 


sense?  would  we  now  for  annas  and  annas?  would  we  for  full- 
score  eight  and  a  liretta?  for  twelve  blocks  one  bob?  for  four  tes- 
ters one  groat?  not  for  a  dinar!  not  for  jo!)  dictited  to  of  all  his 
little  brothron  and  sweestureens  the  first  riddle  of  the  universe: 
asking,  when  is  a  man  not  a  man?:  telling  them  take  their  time, 
yungfries,  and  wait  till  the  tide  stops  (for  from  the  first  his  day- 
was  a  fortnight)  and  offering  the  prize  of  a  bittersweet  crab,  a 
little  present  from  the  past,  for  their  copper  age  was  yet  un- 
minted,  to  the  winner.  One  said  when  the  heavens  are  quakers, 
a  second  said  when  Bohemeand  lips,  a  third  said  when  he,  no, 
when  hold  hard  a  jiffy,  when  he  is  a  gnawstick  and  detarmined 
to,  the  next  one  said  when  the  angel  of  death  kicks  the  bucket 
of  life,  still  another  said  when  the  wine's  at  witsends,  and  still 
another  when  lovely  wooman  stoops  to  conk  him,  one  of  the 
littliest  said  me,  me,  Sem,  when  pappa  papared  the  harbour,  one 
of  the  wittiest  said,  when  he  yeat  ye  abblokooken  and  he  zmear 
hezelf  zo  zhooken,  still  one  said  when  you  are  old  Fm  grey  fall 
full  wi  sleep,  and  still  another  when  wee  deader  walkner,  and 
another  when  he  is  just  only  after  having  being  semisized,  an- 
other when  yea,  he  hath  no  mananas,  and  one  when  dose  pigs 
they  begin  now  that  they  will  flies  up  intil  the  looft.  All  were 
wrong,  so  Shem  himself,  the  doctator,  took  the  cake,  the  correct 
solution  being  —  all  give  it  up?  — ;  when  he  is  a  —  yours  till 
the  rending  of  the  rocks,  —  Sham. 

Shem  was  a  sham  and  a  low  sham  and  his  lowness  creeped  out 
first  via  foodstuffs.  So  low  was  he  that  he  preferred  Gibsen's  tea- 
time  salmon  tinned,  as  inexpensive  as  pleasing,  to  the  plumpest 
roeheavy  lax  or  the  friskiest  parr  or  smolt  troutlet  that  ever  was 
gaffed  between  Leixlip  and  Island  Bridge  and  many  was  the  time 
he  repeated  in  his  botulism  that  no  junglegrown  pineapple  ever 
smacked  like  the  whoppers  you  shook  out  of  Ananias'  cans, 
Findlater  and  Gladstone's,  Corner  House,  Englend.  None  of 
your  inchthick  blueblooded  Balaclava  fried-at-belief-stakes  or 
juicejelly  legs  of  the  Grex's  molten  mutton  or  greasilygristly 
grunters'  goupons  or  slice  upon  slab  of  luscious  goosebosom 
with  lump  after  load  of  plumpudding  stufling  all  aswim  in  a 

170 


I 


I 


swamp  of  bogoakgravy  for  that  greekenhearted  yude!  Rosbif  of 
Old  Zealand!  he  could  not  attouch  it.  See  what  happens  when 
your  somatophage  merman  takes  his  fancy  to  our  virgitarian 
swan?  He  even  ran  away  with  hunself  and  became  a  farsoonerite, 
saying  he  would  far  sooner  muddle  through  the  hash  of  lentils 
in  Europe  than  meddle  with  Irrland*s  split  little  pea.  Once  when 
among  those  rebels  in  a  state  of  hopelessly  helpless  intoxication 
the  piscivore  strove  to  lift  a  czitround  peel  to  either  nostril,  hic- 
cupping, apparently  impromptued  by  the  hibat  he  had  with  his 
glottal  stop,  that  he  kukkakould  flowrish  for  ever  by  the  smell, 
as  the  czitr,  as  the  kcedron,  like  a  scedar,  of  the  founts,  on  moun- 
tains, with  limon  on,  of  Lebanon.  O !  the  lowness  of  him  was 
.  beneath  all  up  to  that  sunk  to!  No  likedbylike  firewater  or  first- 
served  firstshot  or  gulletburn  gin  or  honest  brewbarrett  beer  either. 
O  dear  no !  Instead  the  tragic  jester  sobbed  himself  wheywhing- 
ingly  sick  of  life  on  some  sort  of  a  rhubarbarous  maundarin  yella- 
green  funkleblue  windigut  diodying  applejack  squeezed  from 
sour  grapefruice  and,  to  hear  him  twixt  his  sedimental  cupslips 
when  he  had  gulfed  down  mmmmuch  too  mmmmany  gourds  of 
it  retching  off  to  almost  as  low  withswillers,  who  always  knew 
notwithstanding  when  they  had  had  enough  and  were  rightly 
indignant  at  the  wretch's  hospitality  when  they  found  to  their 
horror  they  could  not  carry  another  drop,  it  came  straight  from 
the  noble  white  fat,  jo,  open  wide  sat,  jo,  jo,  her  why  hide  that, 
jo  jo  jo,  the  winevat,  of  the  most  serene  magyansty  az  archdio- 
chesse,  if  she  is  a  duck,  she's  a  douches,  and  when  she  has  a 
feherbour  snot  her  fault,  now  is  it?  artstouchups,  funny  you're 
grinning  at,  fancy  you're  in  her  yet,  Fanny  Urinia. 

Aint  that  swell,  hey?  Peamengro!  Talk  about  lowness!  Any 
dog's  quantity  of  it  visibly  oozed  out  thickly  from  this  dirty 
little  blacking  beetle  for  the  very  fourth  snap  the  Tulloch-Turn- 
bull  girl  with  her  coldblood  kodak  shotted  the  as  yet  unre- 
muneranded  national  apostate,  who  was  cowardly  gun  and  camera 
