because  he  forgot  himself,  making  wind  and  water,  and  made 
a  Neptune's  mess  of  all  of  himself,  sculling  over  the  giamond's 
courseway,  and  because  he  forgot  to  remember  to  sign  an  old 
morning  proxy  paper,  a  writing  in  request  to  hersute  herself,  on 
stamped  bronnanoleum,  from  Roneo  to  Giliette,  before  saying 
his  grace  before  fish  and  then  and  there  and  too  there  was 
poor  Dion  Cassius  Poosycomb,  all  drowned  too,  before  the 
world  and  her  husband,  because  it  was  most  improper  and  most 
wrong,  when  he  attempted  to  (well,  he  was  shocking  poor  in 
his  health,  he  said,  with  the  shingles  falling  off  him),  because 
he  (ah,  well  now,  peaces  pea  to  Wedmore  and  let  not  the  song  go 
dumb  upon  your  Ire,  as  we  say  in  the  Spasms  of  Davies,  and  we 
won't  be  too  hard  on  him  as  an  old  Manx  presbyterian)  and  after 
that,  as  red  as  a  Rosse  is,  he  made  his  last  will  and  went  to  con- 
fession, like  the  general  of  the  Berkeleyites,  at  the  rim  of  the  rom, 
on  his  two  bare  marrowbones,  to  Her  Worship  his  Mother  and 
Sister  Evangelist  Sweainey,  on  Cailcainnin  widnight  and  he  was 
so  sorry,  he  was  really,  because  he  left  the  bootybutton  in  the 
handsome  cab  and  now,  tell  the  truth,  unfriends  never,  (she  was 
his  first  messes  dogess  and  it  was  a  very  pretty  peltry  and  there 

391 


were  faults  on  both  sides)  well,  he  attempted  (or  so  they  say) 
ah,  now,  forget  and  forgive  (don't  we  all?)  and,  sure,  he  was  only 
funning  with  his  andrewmartins  and  his  old  age  coming  over 
him,  well,  he  attempted  or,  the  Connachy,  he  was  tempted  to 
attempt  some  hunnish  familiarities,  after  eten  a  bad  carmp  in  the 
rude  ocean  and,  hevantonoze  sure,  he  was  dead  seasickabed  (it  was 
really  too  bad !)  her  poor  old  divorced  male,  in  the  housepays  for 
the  daying  at  the  Martyr  Mrs  MacCawley's,  where  at  the  time 
he  was  taying  and  toying,  to  hold  the  nursetendered  hand,  (ah, 
the  poor  old  coax!)  and  count  the  buttons  and  her  hand  and 
frown  on  a  bad  crab  and  doying  to  remembore  what  doed  they 
were  byorn  and  who  made  a  who  a  snore.  Ah  dearo  dearo 
dear! 

And  where  do  you  leave  Matt  Emeritus?  The  laychief  of  Ab- 
botabishop?  And  exchullard  of  ffrench  and  gherman.  Achoch! 
They  were  all  so  sorgy  for  poorboir  Matt  in  his  saltwater  hat, 
with  the  Aran  crown,  or  she  grew  that  out  of,  too  big  for  him,  of 
or  Mnepos  and  his  overalls,  all  falling  over  her  in  folds — sure  he 
hadn't  the  heart  in  her  to  pull  them  up — poor  Matt,  the  old  peri- 
grime  matriarch,  and  a  queenly  man,  (the  porple  blussing  upon 
them!)  sitting  there,  the  sole  of  the  settlement,  below  ground, 
for  an  expiatory  rite,  in  postulation  of  his  cause,  (who  shall  say?) 
in  her  beaver  bonnet,  the  king  of  the  Caucuses,  a  family  all  to 
himself,  under  geasa,  Themistletocles,  on  his  multilingual  tomb- 
stone, like  Navellicky  Kamen,  and  she  due  to  kid  by  sweetpea 
time,  with  her  face  to  the  wall,  in  view  of  the  poorhouse,  and 
taking  his  rust  in  the  oxsight  of  Iren,  under  all  the  auspices,  amid 
the  rattle  of  hailstorms,  kalospintheochromatokreening,  with  her 
ivyclad  hood,  and  gripping  an  old  pair  of  curling  tongs,  belong- 
ing to  Mrs  Duna  O'Cannell,  to  blow  his  brains  with,  till  the 
heights  of  Newhigherland  heard  the  Bristolhut,  with  his  can  of 
tea  and  a  purse  of  alfred  cakes  from  Anne  Lynch  and  two  cuts  of 
Shackleton's  brown  loaf  and  dilisk,  waiting  for  the  end  to  come. 
Gordon  Heighland,  when  you  think  of  it!  The  merthe  dirther! 
Ah  ho!  It  was  too  bad  entirely!  All  devoured  by  active  parlour- 
men,  laudabiliter,  of  woman  squelch  and  all  on  account  of  the 

392 


I 


smell  of  Shakeletin  and  scratchman  and  his  mouth  watering,  acid 
and  alkolic;  signs  on  the  salt,  and  so  now  pass  the  loaf  for  Christ 
sake.  Amen.  And  so.  And  all. 

Matt.  And  loaf.  So  that  was  the  end.  And  it  can't  be  helped. 
Ah,  God  be  good  to  us!  Poor  Andrew  Martin  Cunningham! 
Take  breath!  Ay!  Ay! 

And  still  and  all  at  that  time  of  the  dynast  days  of  old  konning 
Soteric  Sulkinbored  and  Bargomuster  Bart,  when  they  struck  coil 
and  shock  haunts,  in  old  Hungerford-on-Mudway,  where  first  I 
met  thee  oldpoetryck  flied  from  may,  and  the  Finnan  baddies  and 
the  Noal  Sharks  and  the  muckstails  turtles  like  an  acoustic  pot- 
tish  and  the  griesouper  bullyum  and  how  he  poled  him  up  his 
boccat  of  vuotar  and  got  big  buzz  for  his  name  in  the  airweek's 
honours  from  home,  colonies  and  empire,  they  were  always  with 
assisting  grace,  thinking  (up)  and  not  forgetting  about  shims  and 
shawls  week,  in  auld  land  syne  (up)  their  four  hosenbands,  that 
were  four  (up)  beautiful  sister  misters,  now  happily  married,  unto 
old  Gallstonebelly,  and  there  they  were  always  counting  and  con- 
tradicting every  night  'tis  early  the  lovely  mother  of  periwinkle 
buttons,  according  to  the  lapper  part  of  their  anachronism  (up 
one  up  two  up  one  up  four)  and  after  that  there  now  she  was, 
in  the  end,  the  deary,  soldpowder  and  all,  the  beautfour  sisters, 
and  that  was  her  mudhen  republican  name,  right  enough,  from 
alum  and  oves,  and  they  used  to  be  getting  up  from  under,  in 
their  tape  and  straw  garlands,  with  all  the  worries  awake  in  their 
hair,  at  the  kookaburra  bell  ringring  all  wrong  inside  of  them 
(come  in,  come  on,  you  lazy  loafs !)  all  inside  their  poor  old  Shan- 
don  bellbox  (come  out  to  hell,  you  lousy  louts!)  so  frightened, 
for  the  dthclangavore,  like  knockneeghs  bumpsed  by  the  fister- 
man's  straights,  (ys!  ys!),  at  all  hours  every  night,  on  their  mistle- 
toes, the  four  old  oldsters,  to  see  was  the  Transton  Postscript 
come,  with  their  oerkussens  under  their  armsaxters,  all  puddled 
and  mythified,  the  way  the  wind  wheeled  the  schooler  round, 
when  nobody  wouldn't  even  let  them  rusten,  from  playing 
their  gastspiels,  crossing  their  sleep  by  the  shocking  silence, 
when  they  were  in  dreams  of  yore,  standing  behind  the 

393 


door,  or  leaning  out  of  the  chair,  or  kneeling  under  the  sofa- 
cover  and  setting  on  the  souptureen,  getting  into  their  way 
something  barbarous,  changing  the  one  wet  underdown  convi- 
brational  bed  or  they  used  to  slumper  under,  when  hope  was  there 
no  more,  and  putting  on  their  half  a  hat  and  falling  over  all  synop- 
ticals  and  a  panegyric  and  repeating  themselves,  like  svvollovv- 
ing,  like  the  time  they  were  dadging  the  talkeycook  that  chased 
them,  look  look  all  round  the  stool,  walk  everywhere  for  a  jool, 
to  break  fyre  to  all  the  rancers,  to  collect  all  and  bits  of  brown, 
the  rathure's  evelopment  in  spirits  of  time  in  all  fathom  of  space 
and  slooping  around  in  a  bawneen  and  bath  slippers  and  go  away 
to  Oldpatrick  and  see  a  doctor  Walker.  And  after  that  so  glad 
they  had  their  night  tentacles  and  there  they  used  to  be,  flapping 
and  cycling,  and  a  dooing  a  doonloop,  panementically,  around 
the  waists  of  the  ships,  in  the  wake  of  their  good  old  Foehn 
again,  as  tyred  as  they  were,  at  their  windswidths  in  the 
waveslength,  the  clipperbuilt  and  the  five  fourmasters  and 
Lally  of  the  cleftoft  bagoderts  and  Roe  of  the  fair  cheats,  ex- 
changing fleas  from  host  to  host,  with  arthroposophia,  and  he 
selling  him  before  he  forgot,  issle  issle,  after  having  prealably 
dephlegmatised  his  gutterful  of  throatyfrogs,  with  a  lungible  fong 
in  his  suckmouth  ear,  while  the  dear  invoked  to  the  coolun  dare 
by  a  palpabrows  lift  left  no  doubt  in  his  minder,  till  he  was  in- 
stant and  he  was  trustin,  sister  soul  in  brother  hand,  the  subjects 
being  their  passion  grand,  that  one  fresh  from  the  cow  about 
Aithne  Meithne  married  a  mailde  and  that  one  too  from  Engr- 
vakon  saga  abooth  a  gooth  a  gev  a  gotheny  egg  and  the  park- 
side  pranks  of  quality  queens,  katte  efter  kinne,  for  Earl  Hooved- 
soon's  choosing  and  Huber  and  Harman  orhowwhen  theeupon- 
thus  (chchch!)  eysolt  of  binnoculises  memostinmust  egotum 
sabcunsciously  senses  upers  the  deprofundity  of  multimathema- 
tical  immaterialities  wherebejubers  in  the  pancosmic  urge  the 
alHmmanence  of  that  which  Itself  is  Itself  Alone  (hear,  O  hear. 
Caller  Errin !)  exteriorises  on  this  ourherenow  plane  in  disunited 
solod,  likeward  and  gushious  bodies  with  (science,  say!)  peril- 
whitened  passionpanting  pugnoplangent  intuitions  of  reunited 

394 


selfdom  (murky  whey,  abstrew  adim!)  in  the  higherdimissional 
selfless  Allself,  theemeeng  Narsty  meedieeng  Idoless,  and  telling 
Jolly  MacGoUy,  dear  raester  John,  the  belated  dishevelled,  hack- 
ing away  at  a  parchment  pied,  and  all  the  other  analist,  the 
steamships  ant  the  ladies'foursome,  ovenfor,  nedenfor,  dinkety, 
duk,  downalupping,  (how  long  tandem !)  like  a  foreretyred  schoon- 
masters,  and  their  pair  of  green  eyes  and  peering  in,  so  they  say,  like 
the  narcolepts  on  the  lakes  of  Coma,  through  the  steamy  win- 
dows, into  the  honeymoon  cabins,  on  board  the  big  steamadories, 
made  by  Fumadory,  and  the  saloon  ladies'  madorn  toilet  chambers 
lined  over  prawn  silk  and  rub  off  the  salty  catara  off  a  windows 
and,  hee  hee,  listening,  qua  committe,  the  poor  old  quakers,  oben 
the  dure,  to  see  all  the  hunnishmooners  and  the  firstclass  ladies, 
serious  me,  a  lass  spring  as  you  fancy,  and  sheets  far  from  the  lad, 
courting  in  blankets,  enfamillias,  and,  shee  shee,  all  improper,  in  a 
lovely  mourning  toilet,  for  the  rosecrumpler,  the  thrilldriver,  the 
sighinspirer,  with  that  olive  throb  in  his  nude  neck,  and,  swayin 
and  thayin,  thanks  ever  so  much  for  the  tiny  quote,  which  sought 
of  maid  everythingling  again  so  very  much  more  delightafellay, 
and  the  perfidly  suite  of  her,  bootyfilly  yours,  under  all  their 
familiarities,  by  preventing  grace,  forgetting  to  say  their  grace  be- 
fore chambadory,  before  going  to  boat  with  the  verges  of  the 
chaptel  of  the  opering  of  the  month  of  Nema  Knatut,  so  pass  the 
poghue  for  grace  sake.  Amen.  And  all,  hee  hee  hee,  quaking,  so 
fright,  and,  shee  shee,  shaking.  Aching.  Ay,  ay. 

For  it  was  then  a  pretty  thing  happened  of  pure  diversion 
mayhap,  when  his  flattering  hend,  at  the  justright  moment,  like 
perchance  some  cook  of  corage  might  clip  the  lad  on  a  poot  of 
porage  handshut  his  duckhouse,  the  vivid  girl,  deaf  with  love, 
(ah  sure,  you  know  her,  our  angel  being,  one  of  romance's  fade- 
less wonderwomen,  and,  sure  now,  we  all  know  you  dote  on 
her  even  unto  date!)  with  a  queeleetlecree  of  joy  sis  crisis  she 
renulited  their  disunited,  with  ripy  lepes  to  ropy  lopes  (the  dear 
o'dears!)  and  the  golden  importunity  of  aloofer's  leavetime, 
when,  as  quick,  is  greased  pigskin,  Amoricas  Champius,  with  one 
aragan  throust,  druve  the  massive  of  virilvigtoury  flshpst  the 

395 


both  lines  of  forwards  (Eburnea's  down,  boys!)  rightjingbangshot 
into  the  goal  of  her  gullet. 
Alris! 

And  now,  upright  and  add  them!  And  plays  be  honest!  And 
pulHt  into  yourself,  as  on  manowoman  do  another !  Candidately, 
everybody!  A  mot  for  amot.  Comong,  meng,  and  douh!  There 
was  this,  wellyoumaycallher,  a  strapping  modern  old  ancient 
Irish  prisscess,  so  and  so  hands  high,  such  and  such  paddock 
weight,  in  her  madapolam  smock,  nothing  under  her  hat  but 
red  hair  and  solid  ivory  (now  you  know  it's  true  in  your 
hardup  hearts!)  and  a  firstclass  pair  of  bedroom  eyes,  of  most 
unhomy  blue,  (how  weak  we  are,  one  and  all!)  the  charm 
of  favour's  fond  consent!  Could  you  blame  her,  we're  saying, 
for  one  psocoldlogical  moment?  What  would  Ewe  do?  With 
that  so  tiresome  old  milkless  a  ram,  with  his  tiresome  duty 
peck  and  his  bronchial  tubes,  the  tiresome  old  hairyg  orangogran 
beaver,  in  his  tiresome  old  twennysixandsixpenny  sheopards 
plods  drowsers  and  his  thirtybobandninepenny  tails  plus  toop! 
Hagakhroustioun!  It  were  too  exceeding  really  if  one  woulds 
to  offer  at  sulk  an  oldivirdual  a  pinge  of  hinge  hit.  The 
mainest  thing  ever!  Since  Edem  was  in  the  boags  noavy.  No,  no, 
the  dear  heaven  knows,  and  the  farther  the  from  it,  if  the  whole 
stole  stale  mis  betold,  whoever  the  gulpable,  and  whatever  the 
pulpous  was,  the  twooned  togethered,  and  giving  the  mhost 
phassionable  wheathers,  they  were  doing  a  lally  a  lolly  a  dither 
a  duther  one  lelly  two  dather  three  lilly  four  dother.  And  it  was 
a  fiveful  moment  for  the  poor  old  timetetters,  ticktacking,  in  tenk 
the  count.  Till  the  spark  that  plugged  spared  the  chokee  he 
gripped  and  (volatile  volupty,  how  brieved  are  thy  lunguings!) 
they  could  and  they  could  hear  like  of  a  lisp  lapsing,  that 
was  her  knight  of  the  truths  diong  plipping  out  of  her  chapell- 
ledeosy,  after  where  he  had  gone  and  polped  the  questioned. 
Plop. 

Ah  now,  it  was  tootwoly  torrific,  the  mummurrlubejubes!  And 
then  after  that  they  used  to  be  so  forgetful,  counting  mother- 
peributts  (up  one  up  four)  to  membore  her  beaufu  mouldern 

396 


i 


I 


maiden  name,  for  overflauwing,  by  the  dream  of  woman  the 
owneirist,  in  forty  lands.  From  Greg  and  Doug  on  poor  Greg 
and  Mat  and  Mar  and  Lu  and  Jo,  now  happily  buried,  our  four! 
And  there  she  was  right  enough,  that  lovely  sight  enough,  the 
girleen  bawn  asthore,  as  for  days  galore,  of  planxty  Gregory. 
Egory.  O  bunket  not  Orwin !  Ay,  ay. 

But,  sure,  that  reminds  me  now,  like  another  tellmastory  re- 
peating yourself,  how  they  used  to  be  in  lethargy's  love,  at  the 
end  of  it  all,  at  that  time  (up)  always,  tired  and  all,  after  doing  the 
mousework  and  making  it  up,  over  their  community  singing 
(up)  the  top  loft  of  the  voicebox,  of  Mamalujo  like  the  senior 
follies  at  murther  magrees,  squatting  round,  two  by  two,  the  four 
confederates,  with  Caxons  the  Coswarn,  up  the  wet  air  register 
in  Old  Man's  House,  Millenium  Road,  crowning  themselves  in 
lauraly  branches,  with  their  cold  knees  and  their  poor  (up)  quad 
rupeds,  ovasleep,  and  all  dolled  up,  for  their  blankets  and  matemy 
mufflers  and  plimsoles  and  their  bowl  of  brown  shackle  and 
milky  and  boterham  clots,  a  potion  a  peace,  a  piece  aportion,  a 
lepel  alip,  alup  a  lap,  for  a  cup  of  kindest  yet,  with  hold  take  hand 
and  nurse  and  only  touch  of  ate,  a  lovely  munkybown  and  for 
xmell  and  wait  the  pinch  and  prompt  poor  Marcus  Lyons  to  be  not 
beheeding  the  skillet  on  for  the  live  of  ghosses  but  to  pass  the  teeth 
for  choke  sake,  Amensch,  when  it  so  happen  they  were  all  syca- 
more and  by  the  world  forgot,  since  the  phlegmish  hoopicough, 
for  all  a  possabled,  after  ete  a  bad  cramp  and  johnny  magories,  and 
backscrat  the  poor  bedsores  and  the  farthing  dip,  their  caschal 
pandle  of  magnegnousioum,  and  read  a  letter  or  two  every  night, 
before  going  to  dodo  sleep  atrance,  with  their  catkins  coifs,  in 
the  twilight,  a  capitaletter,  for  further  auspices,  on  their  old  one 
page  codex  book  of  old  year's  eve  1132,  M.M.L.J.  old  style,  their 
Senchus  Mor,  by  his  fellow  girl,  the  Mrs  Shemans,  in  her  summer 
seal  houseonsample,  with  the  caracul  broadtail,  her  totam  in 
tutu^  final  buff  noonmeal  edition,  in  the  regatta  covers,  uptenable 
from  the  orther,  for  to  regul  their  reves  by  incubation,  and  Lally, 
through  their  gangrene  spentacles,  and  all  the  good  or  they 
did  in  their  time,  the  rigorists,  for  Roe  and  O'Mulcnory  a 

397 


Corny  ap  Mul  or  Lap  ap  Morion  and  Buffler  ap  Matty  Mac 
Gregory  for  Marcus  on  Podex  by  Daddy  de  Wyer,  old  baga- 
broth,  beeves  and  scullogues,  churls  and  vassals,  in  same,  sept 
and  severalty  and  one  by  one  and  sing  a  mamalujo.  To  the 
heroest  champion  of  Eren  and  his  braceoelanders  and  Gowan, 
Gawin  and  Gonne. 

And  after  that  now  in  the  future,  please  God,  after  nonpenal 
start,  all  repeating  ourselves,  in  medios  loquos,  from  where  he  got 
a  useful  arm  busy  on  the  touchline,  due  south  of  her  western 
shoulder,  down  to  death  and  the  love  embrace,  with  an  interesting 
tallow  complexion  and  all  now  united,  sansfamillias,  let  us  ran  on 
to  say  oremus  prayer  and  homeysweet  homely,  after  fully  realis- 
ing the  gratifying  experiences  of  highly  continental  evenements, 
for  meter  and  peter  to  temple  an  eslaap,  for  auld  acquaintance,  to 
Peregrine  and  Michael  and  Farfassa  and  Peregrine,  for  navigants 
et  peregrinantibus,  in  all  the  old  imperial  and  Fionnachan  sea  and 
for  vogue  awallow  to  a  Miss  Yiss,  you  fascinator,  you,  sing  a 
lovasteamadorion  to  Ladyseyes,  here's  Tricks  and  Doelsy,  de- 
lightfully ours,  in  her  doaty  ducky  little  blue  and  roll  his  hoop 
and  how  she  ran,  when  wit  won  free,  the  dimply  blissed  and  aw- 
fully bucked,  right  glad  we  never  shall  forget,  thoh  the  dayses 
gone  still  they  loves  young  dreams  and  old  Luke  with  his 
kingly  leer,  so  wellworth  watching,  and  Senchus  Mor,  possessed 
of  evident  notoriety,  and  another  more  of  the  bigtimers,  to  name 
no  others,  of  whom  great  things  were  expected  in  the  fulmfilming 
department,  for  the  lives  of  Lazarus  and  auld  luke  syne  and  she 
haihaihail  her  kobbor  kohinor  sehehet  on  the  praze  savohole 
shanghai. 

Hear,  O  hear,  Iseult  la  belle !  Tristan,  sad  hero,  hear !  The  Lambeg 
drum,  the  Lombog  reed,  the  Lumbag  fiferer,  the  Limibig  brazenaze. 

Anno  Domini  nostri  sancti  Jesu  Christi 

Nine  hundred  and  ninetynine  million  pound  sterling  in  the  hluehlack 

bowels  of  the  hank  of  Ulster, 
Br  aw  bawbees  and  good  gold  pounds^  galore,  my  girleen,  a  Sunday  II 

prank  thee  finely . 

398 


p 


And  no  damn  loutll  come  courting  thee  or  by  the  mother  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  there'' II  be  murder/ 

0,  come  all  ye  sweet  nymphs  of  Dingle  beach  to  cheer  Brinabride 

queen  from  Sybil  surfriding 
In  her  curragh  of  shells  of  daughter  of pearl  and  her  silvery monnblue 

mantle  round  her. 
Crown  of  the  waters^  brine  on  her  brow^  shell  dance  them  a  jig  and 

jilt  them  fairly, 

Yerray  why  would  she  bide  with  Sig  Sloomysides  or  the  grogram  grey 
barnacle  gander!^ 

You  wont  need  be  lonesome  ^  Liny      love^  when  your  beau  gets  his 

glut  of  cold  meat  and  hot  soldiering 
Nor  wake  in  winter^  window  machree^  but  snore  sung  in  my  old 

Balbriggan  surtout. 
Wisha^  wont  you  agree  now  to  take  me  from  the  middle,  say,  of 

next  week  on^for  the  balance  of  my  days,  for  nothing  (whatF) 

as  your  own  nurse  tender,^ 
A  power  of  highsteppers  died  game  right  enough — but  who,  acushla, 

7/  beg  coppers  for  you? 

I  tossed  that  one  long  before  anyone. 

It  was  of  a  wet  good  Friday  too  she  was  ironing  and,  as  Pm  given 
now  to  understand,  she  was  always  mad  gone  on  me. 

Grand  goo  segr  easing  we  had  entirely  with  an  allnight  eider  down, bed 
picnic  to  follow. 

By  the  cross  of  Cong,  says  she,  rising  up  Saturday  in  the  twilight 
from  under  me,  Mick,  Nick  the  Maggot  or  whatever  your  name 
is  y  you  re  the  mose  likable  lad  that's  come  my  ways  yet  from  the 
barony  of  Bohermore. 

Mattheehew,  Markeehew,  Lukeehew,  Johnheehewheehew ! 
Haw! 

And  still  a  light  moves  long  the  river.  And  stiller  the  mermen 

ply  their  keg. 
Its  pith  is  full.  The  way  is  free.  Their  lot  is  cast. 
So,  to  john  for  a  John,  johnajeams,  led  it  be! 

399 


IP 


lii 


Ill 


II 


I 


I 


I 


I 


I 


III 


I 


Hark! 

Tolv  two  elf  kater  ten  (it  can't  be)  sax. 
Hork! 

Pedwar  pemp  foify  tray  (it  must  be)  twelve. 

And  low  stole  o'er  the  stillness  the  heartbeats  of  sleep. 

White  fogbow  spans.  The  arch  embattled.  Mark  as  capsules. 
The  nose  of  the  man  who  was  nought  like  the  nasoes.  It  is  self- 
tinted,  wrinkling,  ruddled.  His  kep  is  a  gorsecone.  He  am  Gascon 
Titubante  of  Tegmine  -  sub  -  Fagi  whose  fixtures  are  mobil- 
ing  so  wobiling  befear  my  remembrandts.  She,  exhibit  next,  his 
Anastashie.  She  has  prayings  in  lowdelph.  Zeehere  green  egg- 
brooms.  What  named  blautoothdmand  is  yon  who  stares.'^  Gu- 
gurtha!  Gugurthal  He  has  becco  of  wild  hindigan.  Ho,  he  hath 
hornhide!  And  hvis  now  is  for  you.  Pensee!  The  most  beautiful 
of  woman  of  the  veilch  veilchen  veilde.  She  would  kidds  to  my 
voult  of  my  palace,  with  obscidian  luppas,  her  aal  in  her  dhove's 
suckling.  Apagemonite !  Come  not  nere !  Black !  Switch  out ! 

Methought  as  I  was  dropping  asleep  somepart  in  nonland  of 
where's  please  (and  it  was  when  you  and  they  were  we)  I  heard 
at  zero  hour  as  'twere  the  peal  of  vixen's  laughter  among  mid- 
night's chimes  from  out  the  belfry  of  the  cute  old  speckled  church 
tolling  so  faint  a  goodmantrue  as  nighthood's  unseen  violet 
rendered  all  animated  greatbritish  and  Irish  objects  nonviewable 
to  human  watchers  save  'twere  perchance  anon  some  glistery 

403 


gleam  darkling  adown  surface  of  affluvial  flowandflow  as  again 
might  seem  garments  of  laundry  reposing  a  leasward  close  at 
hand  in  full  expectation.  And  as  I  was  jogging  along  in  a  dream  as 
dozing  I  was  dawdling,  arrah,  methought  broadtone  was  heard  and 
the  creepers  and  the  gliders  and  flivvers  of  the  earth  breath  and 
the  dancetongues  of  the  woodfires  and  the  hummers  in  their 
ground  all  vociferated  echoating:  Shaun!  Shaun!  Post  the  post! 
with  a  high  voice  and  O,  the  higher  on  high  the  deeper  and  low, 
I  heard  him  so!  And  lo,  mescemed  somewhat  came  of  the  noise 
and  somewho  might  amove  allmurk.  Now,  'twas  as  clump,  now 
mayhap.  When  look,  was  light  and  now'twas  as  flasher,  now 
moren  as  the  glaow.  Ah,  in  unlitness  'twas  in  very  similitude, 
bless  me,  'twas  his  belted  lamp!  Whom  we  dreamt  was  a  shaddo, 
sure,  he's  lightseyes,  the  laddo!  Blessed  momence,  O  romence, 
he's  growing  to  stay!  Ay,  he  who  so  swayed  a  will  of  a  wisp 
before  me,  hand  prop  to  hand,  prompt  side  to  the  pros,  dressed 
like  an  earl  in  just  the  correct  wear,  in  a  classy  mac  Frieze  o'coat 
of  far  suparior  ruggedness,  indigo  braw,  tracked  and  tramped, 
and  an  Irish  ferrier  collar,  freeswinging  with  mereswin  lacers  from 
his  shoulthern  and  thick  welted  brogues  on  him  hammered  to  suit 
the  scotsmost  public  and  climate,  iron  heels  and  sparable  soles,  and 
his  jacket  of  providence  wellprovided  woolies  with  a  softrolling 
lisp  of  a  lapel  to  it  and  great  sealingwax  buttons,  a  good  helping 
bigger  than  the  slots  for  them,  of  twentytwo  carrot  krasnapopp- 
sky  red  and  his  invulnerable  burlap  whiskcoat  and  his  popular 
choker,  Tamagnum  sette-and-forte  and  his  loud  boheem  toy  and 
the  damasker's  overshirt  he  sported  inside,  a  starspangled  zephyr 
with  a  decidedly  surpliced  crinklydoodle  front  with  his  motto 
through  dear  life  embrothred  over  it  in  peas,  rice,  and  yeggy- 
yolk.  Or  for  royal.  Am  for  Mail,  R.M.D.  hard  cash  on  the  nail 
and  the  most  successfully  carried  gigot  turnups  now  you  ever, 
(what  a  pairfact  crease!  how  amsolookly  kersse!)  breaking  over 
the  ankle  and  hugging  the  shoeheel,  everything  the  best  —  none 
other  from  (Ah,  then  may  the  turtle's  blessings  of  God  and  Mary 
and  Haggispatrick  and  Huggisbrigid  be  souptumbling  all  over 
him!)  other  than  (and  may  his  hundred  thousand  welcome  stewed 

404 


r 


letters,  relayed  wand  postchased,  multiply,  ay  faith,  and  plultiply !) 
Shaun  himself. 

What  a  picture  primitive! 

Had  I  the  concordant  wiseheads  of  Messrs  Gregory  and  Lyons 
alongside  of  Dr  Tarpey's  and  I  dorsay  the  reverend  Mr  Mac 
Dougall's,  but  I,  poor  ass,  am  but  as  their  fourpart  tinckler's  dun- 
key.  Yet  methought  Shaun  (holy  messonger  angels  be  uninter- 
ruptedly nudging  him  among  and  along  the  winding  ways  of 
random  ever!)  Shaun  in  proper  person  (now  may  all  the  blue- 
blacksliding  constellations  continue  to  shape  his  changeable  time- 
table !)  stood  before  me.  And  I  pledge  you  my  agricultural  word 
by  the  hundred  and  sixty  odds  rods  and  cones  of  this  even's 
vision  that  young  fellow  looked  the  stuff,  the  Bel  of  Beaus* 
Walk,  a  prime  card  if  ever  was!  Pep?  Now  without  deceit  it  is 
hardly  too  much  to  say  he  was  looking  grand,  so  fired  smart,  in 
much  more  than  his  usual  health.  No  mistaking  that  beamish 
brow !  There  was  one  for  you  that  ne'er  would  nunch  with  good 
Duke  Humphrey  but  would  aight  through  the  months  without  a 
sign  of  an  err  in  hem  and  then,  otherwise  rounding,  fourale  to  the 
lees  of  Traroe.  Those  jehovial  oyeglances!  The  heart  of  the  rool! 
And  hit  the  hencoop.  He  was  immense,  topping  swell  for  he  was 
after  having  a  great  time  of  it,  a  twentyfour  hours  every  moment 
matters  maltsight,  in  a  porterhouse,  scutfrank,  if  you  want  to 
know.  Saint  Lawzenge  of  Toole's,  the  Wheel  of  Fortune,  leave 
your  clubs  in  the  hall  and  wait  on  yourself,  no  chucks  for  wal- 
nut ketchups,  Lazenby's  and  Chutney  graspis  (the  house  the  once 
queen  of  Bristol  and  Balrothery  twice  admired  because  her 
frumped  door  looked  up  Dacent  Street)  where  in  the  sighed  of 
lovely  eyes  while  his  knives  of  hearts  made  havoc  he  had  re- 
cruited his  strength  by  meals  of  spadefuls  of  mounded  food,  in 
anticipation  of  the  faste  of  tablenapkins,  constituting  his  three- 
partite  pranzipal  meals  plus  a  collation,  his  breakfast  of  first,  a  bless 
us  O  blood  and  thirsthy  orange,  next,  the  half  of  a  pint  of  becon 
with  newled  googs  and  a  segment  of  riceplummy  padding,  met 
of  sunder  suigar  and  some  cold  forsoaken  steak  peatrefired  from 
the  batblack  night  o'erflown  then,  witliout  prejuice  to  evectuals, 

405 


came  along  merendally  his  stockpot  dinner  of  a  half  a  pound  or 
round  steak,  very  rare,  Blong's  best  from  Portarlington's  Butchery, 
with  a  side  of  riceypeasy  and  Corkshire  alia  mellonge  and  bacon 
with  (a  little  mar  pliche!)  a  pair  of  chops  and  thrown  in  from  the 
silver  grid  by  the  proprietoress  of  the  roastery  who  lives  on  the 
hill  and  gaulusch  gravy  and  pumpernickel  to  wolp  up  and  a 
gorger's  bulby  onion  (Margareter,  Margaretar  Margarastican- 
deatar)  and  as  well  with  second  course  and  then  finally,  after 
his  avalunch  oclock  snack  at  Appelredt's  or  Kitzy  Braten's  of 
saddlebag  steak  and  a  Botherhim  with  her  old  phoenix  portar, 
jistr  to  gwen  his  gwistel  and  praties  sweet  and  Irish  too  and  mock 
gurgle  to  whistle  his  way  through  for  the  swallying,  swp  by  swp, 
and  he  getting  his  tongue  arount  it  and  Boland's  broth  broken 
into  the  bargain,  to  his  regret  his  soupay  avic  nightcap,  vitellusit, 
a  carusal  consistent  with  second  course  eyer  and  becon  (the  rich 
of)  with  broad  beans,  hig,  steak,  hag,  pepper  the  diamond  bone 
hotted  up  timmtomm  and  while'twas  after  that  he  scoffed  a  drake- 
ling  snuggily  stuffed  following  cold  loin  of  veal  more  cabbage  and 
in  their  green  free  state  a  clister  of  peas,  soppositorily  petty,  last. 
P.S.  but  a  fingerhot  of  rheingenever  to  give  the  Pax  cum  Spiri- 
tututu.  Drily  thankful.  Burud  and  dulse  and  typureely  jam,  all 
free  of  charge,  aman,  and.  And  the  best  of  wine  avec.  For  his 
heart  was  as  big  as  himself,  so  it  was,  ay,  and  bigger!  While  the 
loaves  are  aflowering  and  the  nachtingale  jugs.  All  St  Jilian^s  of 
Berry,  hurrah  there  for  tobies !  Mabhrodaphne,  brown  pride  of  our 
custard  house  quay,  amiable  with  repastful,  cheerus  graciously, 
cheer  us!  Ever  of  thee,  Anne  Lynch,  he's  deeply  draiming! 
Houseanna!  Tea  is  the  Highest!  For  auld  lang  Ayternitay!  Thus 
thicker  will  he  grow  now,  grew  new.  And  better  and  better  on 
butter  and  butter.  At  the  sign  of  Mesthress  Vanhungrig.  However! 
Mind  you,  nuckling  down  to  nourritures,  were  they  menuly  some 
ham  and  jaffas,  and  I  don't  mean  to  make  the  ingestion  tor  the 
moment  that  he  was  guilbey  of  gulpable  gluttony  as  regards  chew- 
able  boltaballs,  but,  biestings  be  biestings,  and  upon  the  whole, 
when  not  off  his  oats,  given  prelove  appetite  and  postlove  pricing 
good  coup,  goodcheap,  were  it  thermidor  oogst  or  fioreal  may 

406 


4 


while  the  whistling  prairial  roysters  play,  between  gormandising 
and  gourmeteering,  he  grubbed  his  tuck  all  right,  deah  smorregos, 
every  time  he  was  for  doing  dirt  to  a  meal  or  felt  like  a  bottle  of 
ardilaun  arongwith  a  smag  of  a  lecker  biss  of  a  welldressed  taart 
or.  Though  his  net  intrants  wight  weighed  nought  but  a  flyblow 
to  his  gross  and  ganz  afterduepoise.  And  he  was  so  jarvey  jaunty 
with  a  romp  of  a  schoolgirl's  completion  sitting  pretty  over  his 
Oyster  Monday  print  face  and  he  was  plainly  out  on  the  ramp  and 
mash^  as  you  might  say,  for  he  sproke. 
Overture  and  beginners! 

When  lo  (whish,  O  whish !)  mesaw  mestreamed,  as  the  green 
to  the  gred  was  flew,  was  flown,  through  deafths  of  durkness 
greengrown  deeper  I  heard  a  voice,  the  voce  of  Shaun,  vote  of 
the  Irish,  voise  from  afar  (and  cert  no  purer  puer  palestrine  e'er 
chanted  panangelical  mid  the  clouds  of  Tu  es  Petrus,  not 
Michaeleen  Kelly,  not  Mara  O'Mario,  and  sure,  what  more 
numerose  Italicuss  ever  rawsucked  frish  uov  in  urinal?),  a  brieze 
to  Yverzone  o'er  the  brozaozaozing  sea,  from  Inchigeela  call 
the  way  how  it  suspired  (morepork!  moreporkl)  to  scented 
nightlife  as  softly  as  the  loftly  marconimasts  from  Clifden  sough 
open  tireless  secrets  (mauveport!  mauveport!)  to  Nova  Scotia's 
