Tumplen  Bar  whereupont  he  was  much  jubilated  by  Boerge- 
mester  "Dyk"  ffogg  of  Isoles,  now  Eisold,  looking  most  plussed 
with  (exhib  39)  a  clout  capped  sunbubble  anaccanponied  from 
his  bequined  torse.  Up. 

Blanchardstown  mewspeppers  pleads  coppyl.  Gracest  good- 
ness, heave  mensy  upponnus!  Grand  old  Manbutton,  give  your 
bowlers  a  rest! 

607 


It  is  a  mere  mienerism  of  this  vague  of  visibilities,  mark  you, 
as  accorded  to  by  moisturologist  of  the  Brehons  Assorceration  for 
the  advauncement  of  scayence  because,  my  dear,  mentioning  of 
it  under  the  breath,  as  in  pure  (what  bunkum!)  essenesse,  there 
have  been  disselving  forenenst  you  just  the  draeper,  the  two 
drawpers  assisters  and  the  three  droopers  assessors  confraterni- 
tisers.  Who  are,  of  course.  Uncle  Arth,  your  two  cozes  from 
Niece  and  (kunject  a  bit  now !)  our  own  familiars,  Billyhealy,  Bally- 
hooly  and  Bullyhowley,  surprised  in  an  indecorous  position  by 
the  Sigurd  Sigerson  Sphygmomanometer  Society  for  bled- 
prusshers. 

Knightsmore.  Haventyne? 

Ha  ha! 

This  Mister  Ireland?  And  a  live? 
Ay,  ay.  Aye,  aye,  baas. 

The  cry  of  Stena  chills  the  vitals  of  slumbring  off  the  motther 
has  been  pleased  into  the  harms  of  old  salaciters,  meassurers 
soon  and  soon,  but  the  voice  of  Alina  gladdens  the  cockly- 
hearted  dreamerish  for  that  magic  moning  with  its  ching 
chang  chap  sugay  kaow  laow  milkee  muchee  bringing  becker- 
brose,  the  brew  with  the  foochoor  in  it.  Sawyest?  Nodt?  Nyets, 
I  dhink  I  sawn  to  remumb  or  sumbsuch.  A  kind  of  a  thinglike 
all  traylogged  then  pubably  it  resymbles  a  pelvic  or  some  kvind 
then  props  an  acutebacked  quadrangle  with  aslant  off  ohahn- 
thenth  a  wenchyoumaycuddler,  lying  with  her  royalirish  upper- 
shoes  among  the  theeckleaves.  Signs  are  on  of  a  mere  by  token 
that  wills  still  to  be  becoming  upon  this  there  once  a  here  was 
world.  As  the  dayeleyves  unfolden  them.  In  the  wake  of  the 
blackshape,  Nattenden  Sone;  whenat,  hindled  firth  and  bundled 
furth,  the  week  of  wakes  is  out  and  over;  as  a  wick  weak  woking 
from  ennemberable  Ashias  unto  fierce  force  fuming,  temtem 
tamtam,  the  Phoenican  wakes. 

Passing.  One.  We  are  passing.  Two.  From  sleep  we  are  pass- 
ing. Three.  Into  the  wikeawades  warld  from  sleep  we  are  passing. 
Four.  Come,  hours,  be  ours! 

But  still.  Ah  diar,  ah  diar!  And  stay. 

608 


It  was  allso  agreenable  in  our  sinegear  clutchless,  touring  the 
no  placelike  no  timelike  absolent,  mixing  up  pettyvaughan  popu- 
lose  with  the  magnumoore  genstries,  lloydhaired  mersscenary 
blookers  with  boydskinned  pigttetails  and  goochlipped  gwendo- 
lenes  with  dufFyeyed  dolores;  like  so  many  unprobables  in  their 
poor  suit  of  the  improssable.  With  Mata  and  after  please  with 
Matamaru  and  after  please  stop  with  Matamaruluka  and  after  stop 
do  please  with  Matamarulukajoni. 

And  anotherum.  Ah  ess,  dapple  ass!  He  will  be  longing  after 
the  Grogram  Grays.  And,  Weisingchetaoli,  he  will  levellaut 
ministel  Trampleasure  be.  Sheflower  Rosina,  younger  Sheflower 
fruit  Amaryllis,  youngest  flowerfruityfrond  Sallysill  or  Sillysall. 
And  house  with  heaven  roof  occupanters  they  are  continuatingly 
attraverse  of  its  milletestudinous  windows,  ricocoursing  them- 
selves, as  staneglass  on  stonegloss,  inplayn  unglish  Wynn's 
Hotel.  Brancherds  at:  Bullbeck,  Oldboof,  Sassondale,  Jorsey 
Uppygard,  Mundelonde,  Abbeytotte,  Bracqueytuitte  with  Hoc- 
keyvilla,  Fockeyvilla,  Hillewille  and  Wallhall.  Hoojahoo  mana- 
gers the  thingaviking.  Obning  shotly.  When  the  messanger  of 
the  risen  sun,  (see  other  oriel)  shall  give  to  every  seeable  a  hue  and 
to  every  bearable  a  cry  and  to  each  spectacle  his  spot  and  to  each 
happening  her  houram.  The  while  we,  we  are  waiting,  we  are 
waiting  for.  Hymn. 

Muta:  Quodestnunc  fumusiste  volhvuns  ex  Domoyno.'^ 

Juva:  It  is  Old  Head  of  Kettle  puffing  off  the  top  of  the  mornin. 

Muta:  He  odda  be  thorly  well  ashamed  of  himself  for  smoking 
before  the  high  host. 

Juva:  Dies  is  Dorminus  master  and  commandant  illy  tono- 
brass. 

Muta:  Diminussed  aster!  An  I  could  peecieve  amonkst  the 
gatherings  who  ever  they  wolk  in  process.'^ 

Juva:  Khubadah!  It  is  the  Chrystanthemlander  with  his 
porters  of  bonzos,  pompommy  plonkyplonk,  the  ghariwallahs, 
moveyovering  the  cabrattlefield  of  slaine. 

Muta:  Pongo  da  Banza!  An  I  would  uscertain  in  druidful 
scatterings  one  piece  tall  chap  he  stand  one  piece  same  place .'^ 

609 


Juva:  Bulkily:  and  he  is  fundementially  theosophagusted  over 
the  whorse  proceedings. 

Muta:  Petrificationibus !  O  horild  haraflare!  Who  his  dickhuns 
now  rearrexes  from  undernearth  the  memorialorum? 

Juva:  Beleave  filmly,  beleave!  Fing  Fing!  King  King! 

Muta:  Ulloverum?  Fulgitudo  ejus  Rhedonum  teneat! 

Juva:  Rolantlossly!  Till  the  tipp  of  his  zifF.  And  the  ubideintia 
of  the  savium  is  our  ervics  fenicitas. 

Muta:  Why  soly  smiles  the  supremest  with  such  for  a  leary  on 
his  rugular  lips? 

Juva:  Bitchorbotchum!  Eebrydime!  He  has  help  his  crewn  on 
the  burkeley  buy  but  he  has  holf  his  crown  on  the  Eurasian 
Generalissimo. 

Muta:  Skulkasloot!  The  twyly  velleid  is  thus  then  paridi- 
cynical.'* 

Juva:  Ut  vivat  volumen  sic  pereat  pouradosus! 

Muta:  Haven  money  on  stablecert.'^ 

Juva:  Tempt  to  wom  Outsider! 

Muta:  Suc.^  He  quoffs.  Wutt.^ 

Juva:  Sec!  Wartar  wartar!  Wett. 

Muta:  Ad  Piabelle  et  Purabelle.^ 

Juva:  At  Winne,  Woermann  og  Sengs. 

Muta:  So  that  when  we  shall  have  acquired  unification  we 
shall  pass  on  to  diversity  and  when  we  shall  have  passed  on  to 
diversity  we  shall  have  acquired  the  instinct  of  combat  and  when 
we  shall  have  acquired  the  instinct  of  combat  we  shall  pass  back  to 
the  spirit  of  appeasement.'^ 

Juva:  By  the  light  of  the  bright  reason  which  daysends  to  us 
from  the  high. 

Muta:  May  I  borrow  that  hordwanderbaffle  from  you,  old 
rubberskin.'^ 

Juva:  Here  it  is  and  I  hope  it*s  your  wormingpen,  Erinmonker! 
Shoot. 

Rhythm  and  Colour  at  Park  Mooting.  Peredos  Last  in  the 
Grand  Natural.  Velivision  victor.  Dubs  newstage  oldtime  turf- 
tussle,  recalling  Winny  Willy  Widger.  Two  draws.  Heliotrope 

6io 


leads  from  Harem.  Three  ties.  Jockey  the  Ropper  jerks  Jake  the 
Rape.  Paddrock  and  bookley  chat. 
And  here  are  the  details. 

Tunc.  Bymeby,  bullocky  vampas  tappany  bobs  topside  joss 
pidgin  fella  Balkelly,  archdruid  of  islish  chinchinjoss  in  the  his 
heptachromatic  sevenhued  septicoloured  roranyellgreenlindigan 
mantle  finish  he  show  along  the  his  mister  guest  Patholic  with 
alb  belongahim  the  whose  throat  hum  with  of  sametime  all  the  his 
cassock  groaner  fellas  of  greysfriaryfamily  he  fast  all  time  what 
time  all  him  monkafellas  with  Same  Patholic,  quoniam,  speeching, 
yeh  not  speeching  noh  man  liberty  is,  he  drink  up  words,  scilicet, 
tomorrow  till  recover  will  not,  all  too  many  much  illusiones 
through  photoprismic  velamina  of  hueful  panepiphanal  world 
spectacurum  of  Lord  Joss,  the  of  which  zoantholitic  furniture, 
from  mineral  through  vegetal  to  animal,  not  appear  to  full  up  to- 
gether fallen  man  than  under  but  one  photoreflection  of  the 
several  iridals  gradationes  of  solar  light,  that  one  which  that  part 
of  it  (furnit  of  heupanepi  world)  had  shown  itself  (part  of  fur  of 
huepanwor)  unable  to  absorbere,  whereas  for  numpa  one  pura- 
duxed  seer  in  seventh  degree  of  wisdom  of  Entis-Onton  he  savvy 
inside  true_  iawardness  of  reality,  the  Ding  hvad  in  idself  id  est, 
all  objects  (of  panepiwor)  allside  showed  themselves  in  trues 
coloribus  resplendent  with  sextuple  gloria  of  light  actually  re- 
tained, untisintus,  inside  them  (obs  of  epiwo).  Rumnant  Patholic, 
stareotypopticus,  no  catch  all  that  preachybook,  utpiam,  to- 
morrow recover  thing  even  is  not,  bymeby  vampsybobsy  tap- 
panasbullocks  topside  joss  pidgin  fella  Bilkilly-Belkelly  say  pat- 
fella,  ontesantes,  twotime  hemhaltshealing,  with  other  words 
verbigratiagrading  from  murmurulentous  till  stridulocelerious  in 
a  hunghoranghoangoly  tsinglontseng  while  his  comprehen- 
durient,  with  diminishing  claractinism,  augumentationed  himself 
in  caloripeia  to  vision  so  throughsighty,  you  anxioust  melan- 
cholic, High  Thats  Hight  Uberking  Leary  his  fiery  grassbelong- 
head  all  show  colour  of  sorrelwood  herbgreen,  again,  nigger- 
blonker,  of  the  his  essixcoloured  holmgrewnworsteds  costume 
the  his  fellow  saffron  pettikilt  look  same  hue  of  boiled  spinasses, 

6ii 


other  thing,  voluntary  mutismuser,  he  not  compyhandy  the  his 
golden  twobreasttorc  look  justsamelike  curlicabbis,  moreafter,  to 
pace  negativisticists,  verdant  readyrainroof  belongahim  Exuber 
High  Ober  King  Leary  very  dead,  what  he  wish  to  say,  spit  of 
superexuberabundancy  plenty  laurel  leaves,  after  that  com- 
mander bulopent  eyes  of  Most  Highest  Ardreetsar  King  same 
thing  like  thyme  choppy  upon  parsley,  alongsidethat,  if  please- 
sir,  nos  displace  tauttung,  sowlofabishospastored,  enamel  Indian 
gem  in  maledictive  fingerfondler  of  High  High  Siresultan  Em- 
peror all  same  like  one  fellow  olive  lentil,  onthelongsidethat,  by 
undesendas,  kirikirikiring,  violaceous  warwon  contusiones  of 
facebuts  of  Highup  Big  Cockywocky  Sublissimime  Autocrat,  for 
that  with  pure  hueglut  intensely  saturated  one,  tinged  uniformly, 
allaroundside  upinandoutdown,  very  like  you  seecut  chowchow 
of  plentymuch  sennacassia.  Hump  cumps  Ebblybally!  Sukkot? 

Punc.  Bigseer,  refrects  the  petty  padre,  whackling  it  out^,  a 
tumble  to  take,  tripeness  to  call  thing  and  to  call  if  say  is  good 
while,  you  pore  shiroskuro  blackinwhitepaddynger,  by  thiswis 
aposterioprismically  apatstrophied  and  paralogically  periparo- 
lysed,  celestial  from  principalest  of  Iro's  Irismans  ruinboon  pot 
before,  (for  beingtime  monkblinkers  timeblinged  completamen- 
tarily  murkblankered  in  their  neutrolysis  between  the  possible 
viriditude  of  the  sager  and  the  probable  eruberuption  of  the 
saint),  as  My  tappropinquish  to  Me  wipenmeselps  gnosegates  a 
handcaughtscheaf  of  synthetic  shammy  rag  to  hims  hers,  seeming- 
such  four  three  two  agreement  cause  heart  to  be  might,  saving  to 
Balenoarch  (he  kneeleths),  to  Great  Balenoarch  (he  kneeleths 
down)  to  Greatest  Great  Balenoarch  (he  kneeleths  down  quite- 
somely),  the  sound  sense  sympol  in  a  weedwayedwold  of  the 
firethere  the  sun  in  his  halo  cast.  Onmen. 

That  was  thing,  bygotter,  the  thing,  bogcotton,  the  very  thing, 
begad!  Even  to  uptoputty  Bilkilly-Belkelly-Balkally.  Who  was 
for  shouting  down  the  shatton  on  the  lamp  of  Jeeshees.  Sweating 
on  to  stonker  and  throw  his  seven.  As  he  shuck  his  thumping 
fore  features  apt  the  hoyhop  of  His  Ards. 

Thud. 

612 


Good  safe  firelamp!  hailed  the  heliots.  Goldselforelump ! 
Hailed  they.  Awed.  Where  thereon  the  skyfold  high,  trampa- 
trampatramp.  Adie.  Per  ye  comdoom  doominoom  noonstroom. 
Yeasome  priestomes.  Fullyhum  toowhoom. 

Taawhaar.'* 

Sants  and  sogs,  cabs  and  cobs,  kings  and  karls,  tentes  and 
taunts. 

'Tis  gone  infarover.  So  fore  now,  dayleash.  Pour  deday.  To 
trancejfixureashone.  Feist  of  Tabomeccles,  scenopegia,  come! 
Shamwork,  be  in  our  scheining!  And  let  every  crisscouple  be  so 
crosscomplimentary,  little  eggons,  youlk  and  meelk,  in  a  farbiger 
pancosmos.  With  a  hottyhammyum  all  round.  Gudstruce! 

Yet  is  no  body  present  here  which  was  not  there  before.  Only 
is  order  othered.  Nought  is  nulled.  Fuitfiatl 

Lo,  the  laud  of  laurens  now  orielising  benedictively  when 
saint  and  sage  have  said  their  say. 

A  spathe  of  calyptrous  glume  involucrumines  the  perinanthean 
Amenta:  fungoalgaceous  muscafilicial  graminopalmular  plan- 
teon;  of  increasing,  livivorous,  feelful  thinkamalinks;  luxuriotia- 
ting  everywhencewithersoever  among  skullhullows  and  charnel- 
cysts  of  a  weedwastewoldwevild  when  Ralph  the  Retriever 
ranges  to  jawrode  his  knuts  knuckles  and  her  theas  thighs;  one- 
gugulp  down  of  the  nauseous  forere  brarkfarsts  oboboomaround 
and  you're  as  paint  and  spickspan  as  a  rainbow;  wreathe  the  bowl 
to  rid  the  bowel;  no  runcure,  no  rank  heat,  sir;  amess  in  amullium; 
chlorid  cup. 

Health,  chalce,  endnessnessessity !  Arrive,  likkypuggers,  in 
a  poke!  The  folgor  of  the  frightfools  is  olympically  optimo- 
minous;  there  is  bound  to  be  a  lovleg  day  for  mirrages  in  the 
open;  Murnane  and  Aveling  are  undertoken  to  berry  that  ort- 
chert:  provided  that.  You  got  to  make  good  that  breachsuit, 
seamer.  You  going  to  haulm  port  houlm,  toilermaster.  You  yet 
must  get  up  to  kill  (nonpar ticular).  You  still  stand  by  and  do  as 
hit  (private).  While  for  yous,  Jasminia  Aruna  and  all  your  likers, 
affinitatively  must  it  be  by  you  elected  if  Monogynes  his  is  or 
hers  Diander,  the  tubous,  limbersome  and  nectarial.  Owned  or 

613 


grazeheifer,  ethel  or  bonding.  Mopsus  or  Gracchus,  all  your 
horodities  will  incessantlament  be  coming  back  from  the  Annone. 
Wishwashwhose,  Ormepierre  Lodge,  Doone  of  the  Drumes, 
blanches  bountifully  and  nightsend  made  up,  every  article  lather- 
ing leaving  several  rinsings  so  as  each  rinse  results  with  a  dap- 
perent  rolle,  cuffs  for  meek  and  chokers  for  sheek  and  a  kink  in 
the  pacts  for  namby.  Forbeer,  forbear!  For  nought  that  is  has 
bane.  In  moumenslaund.  Themes  have  thimes  and  habit  reburns. 
To  flame  in  you.  Ardor  vigor  forders  order.  Since  ancient  was 
our  living  is  in  possible  to  be.  Delivered  as.  Caffirs  and  culls  and 
onceagain  overalls,  the  fittest  surviva  lives  that  blued,  iorn  and 
storridge  can  make  them.  Whichus  all  claims.  Clean.  Whenast- 
cleeps.  Close.  And  the  mannormillor  clipperclappers.  Noxt.  Doze. 

Fennsense,  finnsonse,  awom!  Tuck  upp  those  wide  shorts. 
The  pink  of  the  busket  for  sheer  give.  Peeps.  Stand  up  to  hard 
ware  and  step  into  style.  If  you  soil  may,  puett,  guett  me  prives. 
For  newmanmaun  set  a  marge  to  the  merge  of  unnotions.  Inni- 
tion  wons  agame. 

What  has  gone.'^  How  it  ends.'^ 

Begin  to  forget  it.  It  will  remember  itself  from  every  sides,  with 
all  gestures,  in  each  our  word.  Today's  truth,  tomorrow's  trend. 
Forget,  remember! 

Have  we  cherished  expectations.'^  Are  we  for  liberty  of  peru- 
siveness.'*  Whyafter  what  forewhere.'^  A  plainplanned  liffeyism 
assemblements  Eblania's  conglomerate  horde.  By  dim  deity  Deva. 

Forget! 

Our  wholemole  mill  wheeling  vicociclometer,  a  tetradoma- 
tional  gazebocroticon  (the  "Mamma  Lujah"  known  to  every 
schoolboy  scandaller,be  he  Matty,  Marky,  Lukey  or  John-a- 
Donk),  autokinatonetically  preprovided  with  a  clappercoupling 
smeltingworks  exprogressive  process,  (for  the  farmer,  his  son  and 
their  homely  codes,  known  as  eggburst,  eggblend,  eggburial  and 
hatch-as-hatch  can)  receives  through  a  portal  vein  the  dialytically 
separated  elements  of  precedent  decomposition  for  the  verypet- 
purpose  of  subsequent  recombination  so  that  the  heroticisms, 
catastrophes  and  eccentricities  transmitted  by  the  ancient  legacy 

614 


r 

! 
i 
i 


of  the  past,  type  by  tope,  letter  from  litter,  word  at  ward,  with 
sendence  of  sundance,  since  the  days  of  Plooney  and  Colum- 
cellas  when  Giacinta,  Pervenche  and  Margaret  swayed  over  the 
all-too-ghoulish  and  illyrical  and  innumantic  in  our  mutter  nation, 
all,  anastomosically  assimilated  and  preteridentified  paraidioti- 
cally,  in  fact,  the  sameold  gamebold  adomic  structure  of  our 
Finnius  the  old  One,  as  highly  charged  with  electrons  as  hophaz- 
ards  can  effective  it,  may  be  there  for  you,  Cockalooralooraloo- 
menos,  when  cup,  platter  and  pot  come  piping  hot,  as  sure  as 
herself  pits  hen  to  paper  and  there's  scribings  scrawled  on  eggs. 
Of  cause,  so !  And  in  effect,  as? 

Dear.  And  we  go  on  to  Dirtdump.  Reverend.  May  we  add 
majesty.'*  Well,  we  have  frankly  enjoyed  more  than  anything 
these  secret  workings  of  natures  (thanks  ever  for  it,  we  humbly 
pray)  and,  well,  was  really  so  denighted  of  this  lights  time. 
Mucksrats  which  bring  up  about  uhrweckers  they  will  come  to 
know  good.  Yon  clouds  will  soon  disappear  looking  forwards 
at  a  fine  day.  The  honourable  Master  Sarmon  they  should  be 
first  born  like  he  was  with  a  twohangled  warpon  and  it  was 
between  Williamstown  and  the  Mairrion  Ailesbury  on  the  top 
of  the  longcar,  as  merrily  we  rolled  along,  we  think  of  him  looking 
at  us  yet  as  if  to  pass  away  in  a  cloud.  When  he  woke  up  in  a 
sweat  besidus  it  was  to  pardon  him,  goldylocks,  me  having  an 
airth,  but  he  daydreamsed  we  had  a  lovelyt  face  for  a  pulltomine. 
Back  we  were  by  the  jerk  of  a  beam  stark,  backed  in  paladays  last, 
on  the  brinks  of  the  wobblish,  the  man  what  never  put  a  dramn 
in  the  swags  but  milk  from  a  national  cowse.  That  was  the  prick 
of  the  spindle  to  me  that  gave  me  the  keys  to  dreamland.  Sneakers 
in  the  grass,  keep  off!  If  we  were  to  tick  off  all  that  cafflers  head, 
whisperers  for  his  accomodation,  the  me  craws,  namely,  and  their 
bacon  what  harmed  butter!  It's  margarseen  oil.  Thinthin  thin- 
thin.  Stringstly  is  it  forbidden  by  the  honorary  tenth  commend- 
mant  to  shall  not  bare  full  sweetness  against  a  nighboor's  wiles. 
What  those  slimes  up  the  cavern  door  around  you,  keenin,  (the 
lies  is  coming  out  on  them  frecklefully)  had  the  shames  to  suggest 
can  we  ever.'*  Never!  So  may  the  low  forget  him  their  trespasses 

615 


against  Molloyd  O'Reilly,  that  hugglebeddy  fann,  now  about  to 
get  up,  the  hartiest  that  Coolock  ever!  A  nought  in  nought 
Eirinishmhan,  called  Ervigsen  by  his  first  mate.  May  all  similar 
douters  of  our  oldhame  story  have  that  fancied  widming!  For 
a  pipe  of  twist  or  a  slug  of  Hibernia  metal  we  could  let  out  and, 
by  jings,  someone  would  make  a  carpus  of  somebody  with  the 
greatest  of  pleasure  by  private  shootings.  And  in  contravention  to 
the  constancy  of  chemical  combinations  not  enough  of  all  the 
slatters  of  him  left  for  Peeter  the  Picker  to  make  their  threi  sevelty 
filfths  of  a  man  out  of.  Good  wheat!  How  delitious  for  the  three 
Sulvans  of  Dulkey  and  what  a  sellpriceget  the  two  Peris  of 
Monacheena!  Sugars  of  lead  for  the  chloras  ashpots!  Peace!  He 
possessing  from  a  child  of  highest  valency  for  our  privileged 
beholdings  ever  complete  hairy  of  chest,  hamps  and  eyebags  in 
pursuance  to  salesladies'  affectionate  company.  His  real  devotes. 
Wriggling  reptiles,  take  notice!  Whereas  we  exgust  all  such 
sprinkling  snigs.  They  are  pestituting  the  whole  time  never  with 
standing  we  simply  agree  upon  the  committee  of  amusance!  Or 
could  above  bring  under  same  notice  for  it  to  be  able  to  be  seen. 

About  that  coerogenal  hun  and  his  knowing  the  size  of  an  egg- 
cup.  First  he  was  a  skulksman  at  one  time  and  then  Cloon's  fired 
him  through  guff.  Be  sage  about  sausages!  Stuttutistics  shows 
with  he's  heacups  of  teatables  the  old  firm's  fatspitters  are  most 
eatenly  appreciated  by  metropolonians.  While  we  should  like  to 
drag  attentions  to  our  Wolkmans  Cumsensation  Act.  The  magnets 
of  our  midst  being  foisted  upon  by  a  plethorace  of  parachutes. 
Did  speece  permit  the  bad  example  of  setting  before  the  military 
to  the  best  of  our  belief  in  the  earliest  wish  of  the  one  in  mind  was 
the  mitigation  of  the  king's  evils.  And  how  he  staired  up  the 
step  after  it's  the  power  of  the  gait.  His  giantstand  of  manun- 
known.  No  brad  wishy  washy  wathy  wanted  neither!  Once  you 
are  balladproof  you  are  unperceable  to  haily,  icy  and  missile- 
throes.  Order  now  before  we  reach  Ruggers'  Rush!  As  we  now 
must  close  hoping  to  Saint  Laurans  all  in  the  best.  Moral.  Mrs 
Stores  Humphreys:  So  you  are  expecting  trouble,  Pondups,  from 
the  domestic  service  questioned.'^  Mr  Stores  Humphreys:  Just  as 

6i6 


there  is  a  good  in  even,  Levia,  my  cheek  is  a  compleet  bleenk. 
Plumb.  Meaning:  one  two  four.  Finckers.  Up  the  hind  hose  of 
hizzars.  Whereapon  our  best  again  to  a  hundred  and  eleven  ploose 
one  thousand  and  one  other  blessings  will  now  concloose  thoose 
epoostles  to  your  great  kindest,  well,  for  all  at  trouble  to  took. 
We  are  all  at  home  in  old  Fintona,  thank  Danis,  for  ourselfsake, 
that  direst  of  housebonds,  whool  wheel  be  true  unto  lovesend 
so  long  as  we  has  a  pockle  full  of  brass.  Impossible  to  remember 
persons  in  improbable  to  forget  position  places.  Who  would 
pellow  his  head  off  to  conjure  up  a,  well,  particularly  mean  stinker 
like  funn  make  called  Foon  MacCrawl  brothers,  mystery  man  of 
the  pork  martyrs?  Force  in  giddersh!  Tomothy  and  Lorcan,  the 
bucket  Toolers,  both  are  Timsons  now  they've  changed  their 
characticuls  during  their  blackout.  Conan  Boyles  will  pudge  the 
daylives  out  through  him, if  theyare  correctlyinformed.  Music,  me 
ouldstrow,  please!  We'll  have  a  brand  rehearsal.  Fing!  One  must 
simply  laugh.  Fing  him  aging !  Good  licks !  Well,  this  ought  to  weke 
him  to  make  up.  He'll  want  all  his  fury  gutmurdherers  to  redress 
him.  Gilly  in  the  gap.  The  big  bad  old  sprowly  all  uttering  foon ! 
Has  now  stuffed  last  podding.  His  fooneral  will  sneak  pleace  by 
creeps  o'clock  toosday.  Kingen  will  commen.  Allso  brewbeer. 
Pens  picture  at  Manchem  House  Horsegardens  shown  in  Morn- 
ing post  as  from  Boston  transcripped.  Femelles  will  be  preadam- 
inant  as  from  twentyeight  to  twelve.  To  hear  that  lovelade 
parson,  of  case,  of  a  bawl  gentlemale,  pour  forther  moracles.  Don't 
forget!  The  grand  fooneral  will  now  shortly  occur.  Remember. 
The  remains  must  be  removed  before  eaght  hours  shorp.  With 
earnestly  conceived  hopes.  So  help  us  to  witness  to  this  day  to 
hand  in  sleep.  From  of  Mayasdaysed  most  duteoused. 

Well,  here's  lettering  you  erronymously  anent  other  clerical 
fands  allieged  herewith.  I  wisht  I  wast  be  that  dumb  tyke  and  he'd 
wish  it  was  me  yonther  heel.  How  about  it.^  The  sweetest  song 
in  the  world!  Our  shape  as  a  juvenile  being  much  admired  from 
the  first  with  native  copper  locks.  Referring  to  the  Married 
Woman's  Improperty  Act  a  correspondent  paints  out  that  the 
Swees  Aubumn  vogue  is  hanging  down  straith  fitting  to  her 

617 


innocenth  eyes.  O,  felicious  coolpose !  If  all  theMacCrawls  would 
only  handle  virgils  like  Armsworks,  Limited !  That's  handsel  for 
gerdes!  Never  mind  Micklemans!  Chat  us  instead!  The  cad 
with  the  pope's  wife,  Lily  Kinsella,  who  became  the  wife  of 
Mr  Sneakers  for  her  good  name  in  the  hands  of  the  kissing 
solicitor,  will  now  engage  in  attentions.  Just  a  prinche  for  to- 
night! Pale  bellies  our  mild  cure,  back  and  streaky  ninepace. 
The  thicks  off  Bully's  Acre  was  got  up  by  Sully.  The  Boot  lane 
brigade.  And  she  had  a  certain  medicine  brought  her  in  a 
licenced  victualler's  bottle.  Shame!  Thrice  shame!  We  are 
advised  the  waxy  is  at  the  present  in  the  Sweeps  hospital  and 
that  he  may  never  come  out!  Only  look  through  your  leather- 
box  one  day  with  P.C.Q.  about  4.32  or  at  8  and  22.5  with  the 
quart  of  scissions  masters  and  clerk  and  the  bevyhum  of  Marie 
Reparatrices  for  a  good  allround  sympowdhericks  purge,  full  view, 
to  be  surprised  to  see  under  the  grand  piano  Lily  on  the  sofa  (and 
a  lady!)  pulling  a  low  and  then  he'd  begin  to  jump  a  little  bit  to 
find  out  what  goes  on  when  love  walks  in  besides  the  solicitous 
bussness  by  kissing  and  looking  into  a  mirror. 

That  we  were  treated  not  very  grand  when  the  police  and 
everybody  is  all  bowing  to  us  when  we  go  out  in  all  directions 
on  Wanterlond  Road  with  my  cubarola  glide.'^  And,  personably 
speaking,  they  can  make  their  beaux  to  my  alee,  as  Hillary  Allen 
sang  to  the  opennine  knighters.  Item,  we  never  were  chained  to  a 
chair,  and,  bitem,  no  widower  whother  soever  followed  us  about 
with  a  fork  on  Yankskilling  Day.  Meet  a  great  civilian  (proud 
lives  to  him !)  who  is  gentle  as  a  mushroom  and  a  very  affectable 
when  he  always  sits  forenenst  us  for  his  wet  while  to  all  whom 
it  may  concern  Sully  is  a  thug  from  all  he  drunk  though  he  is  a 
rattling  fine  bootmaker  in  his  profession.  Would  we  were  here- 
arther  to  lodge  our  complaint  on  sergeant  Laraseny  in  consequence 
of  which  in  such  steps  taken  his  health  would  be  constably  broken 
into  potter's  pance  which  would  be  the  change  of  his  life  by  a 
Nollwelshian  which  has  been  oxbelled  out  of  crispianity. 

Well,  our  talks  are  coming  to  be  resumed  by  more  polite  con- 
versation with  a  huntered  persent  human  over  the  natural  bestness 

618 


of  pleisure  after  his  good  few  mugs  of  humbedumb  and  shag. 
While  for  whoever  likes  diat  urogynal  pan  of  cakes  one  apiece  it  is 
thanks,  beloved,  to  Adam,  our  former  first  Finnlatter  and  our 
grocerest  churcher,  as  per  Grippiths'  varuations,  for  his  beautiful 
crossmess  parzel. 

Well,  we  simply  like  their  demb  cheeks,  the  Rathgarries, 
wagging  here  about  around  the  rhythms  in  me  amphybed  and  he 
being  as  bothered  that  he  pausably  could  by  the  fallth  of  hampty 
damp.  Certified  reformed  peoples,  we  may  add  to  this  stage,  are 
proptably  saying  to  quite  agreeable  deef.  Here  gives  your 
answer,  pigs  and  scuts !  Hence  we've  lived  in  two  worlds.  He  is 
another  he  what  stays  under  the  himp  of  holth.  The  herewaker 
of  our  hamefame  is  his  real  namesame  who  will  get  himself  up 
and  erect,  confident  and  heroic  when  but,  young  as  of  old,  for  my 
daily  comfreshenall,  a  wee  one  woos. 

Alma  Luvia,  Pollabella. 
P.S.  Soldier  Rollo's  sweetheart.  And  she's  about  fetted  up  now 
with  nonsery  reams.  And  rigs  out  in  regal  rooms  with  the  ritzies. 
Rags!  Worns  out.  But  she's  still  her  deckhuman  amber  too. 

Soft  morning,  city!  Lsp!  I  am  leafy  speafing.  Lpf!  Folty  and 
folty  all  the  nights  have  failed  on  to  long  my  hair.  Not  a  sound, 
falling.  Lispn!  No  wind  no  word.  Only  a  leaf,  just  a  leaf  and 
then  leaves.  The  woods  are  fond  always.  As  were  we  their  babes 
in.  And  robins  in  crews  so.  It  is  for  me  goolden  wending. 
Unless.'^  Away!  Rise  up,  man  of  the  booths,  you  have  slept  so 
long!  Or  is  it  only  so  mesleems.''  On  your  pondered  palm. 
Reclined  from  cape  to  pede.  With  pipe  on  bowl.  Terce  for  a 
fiddler,  sixt  for  makmerriers,  none  for  a  Cole.  Rise  up  now  and 
aruse!  Norvena's  over.  I  am  leafy,  your  goolden,  so  you  called 
me,  may  me  life,  yea  your  goolden,  silve  me  solve,  exsogerraider ! 
You  did  so  drool.  I  was  so  sharm.  But  there's  a  great  poet  in  you 
too.  Stout  Stokes  would  take  you  offly.  So  has  he  as  bored  me 
to  slump.  But  am  good  and  rested.  Taks  to  you,  toddy,  tan  ye! 
Yawhawaw.  Helpunto  min,  helpas  vin.  Here  is  your  shirt,  the  day 
one,  come  back.  The  stock,  your  collar.  Also  your  double  brogues. 
A  comforter  as  well.  And  here  your  iverol  and  everthelest  your 

619 


umbr.  And  stand  up  tall!  Straight.  I  want  to  see  you  looking  fine 
for  me.  With  your  brandnew  big  green  belt  and  all.  Blooming  in 
the  very  lotust  and  second  to  nill,  Budd!  When  you're  in  the 
buckly  shuit  Rosensharonals  near  did  for  you.  Fiftyseven  and 
three,  cosh,  with  the  bulge.  Proudpurse  Alby  with  his  pooraroon 
Eireen,  they'll.  Pride,  comfy tousness,  enevy!  You  make  me  think 
of  a  wonderdecker  I  once.  Or  somebalt  thet  sailder,  the  man  me- 
gallant,  with  the  bangled  ears.  Or  an  earl  was  he,  at  Lucan.'^  Or, 
no,  it's  the  Iren  duke's  I  mean.  Or  somebrey  erse  from  the  Dark 
Countries.  Come  and  let  us !  We  always  said  we'd.  And  go  abroad. 
Rathgreany  way  perhaps.  The  childher  are  still  fast.  There  is  no 
school  today.  Them  boys  is  so  contrairy.  The  Head  does  be 
worrying  himself  Heel  trouble  and  heal  travel.  Galliver  and 
Gellover.  Unless  they  changes  by  mistake.  I  seen  the  likes  in 
the  twinngling  of  an  aye.  Som.  So  oft.  Sim.  Time  after  time. 
The  sehm  asnuh.  Two  bredder  as  doffered  as  nors  in  soun.  When 
one  of  him  sighs  or  one  of  him  cries  'tis  you  all  over.  No  peace 
at  all.  Maybe  it's  those  two  old  crony  aunts  held  them  out  to  the 
water  front.  Queer  Mrs  Quickenough  and  odd  Miss  Dodd- 
pebble.  And  when  them  two  has  had  a  good  few  there  isn't  much 
more  dirty  clothes  to  publish.  From  the  Laundersdale  Minssions. 
One  chap  googling  the  holyboy's  thingabib  and  this  lad  wetting 
his  widdle.  You  were  pleased  as  Punch,  recitating  war  exploits 
and  pearse  orations  to  them  jackeen  gapers.  But  that  night  after, 
all  you  were  wanton !  Bidding  me  do  this  and  that  and  the  other. 
And  blowing  off  to  me,  hugly  Judsys,  what  wouldn't  you  give 
to  have  a  girl!  Your  wish  was  mewill.  And,  lo,  out  of  a  sky!  The 
way  I  too.  But  her,  you  wait.  Eager  to  choose  is  left  to  her  shade. 
If  she  had  only  more  matcher's  wit.  Findlings  makes  runaways, 
runaways  a  stray.  She's  as  merry  as  the  gricks  still.  'Twould  be 
sore  should  ledden  sorrow.  I'll  wait.  And  I'll  wait.  And  then  if 
all  goes.  What  will  be  is.  Is  is.  But  let  them.  Slops  hospodch  and 
the  slusky  slut  too.  He's  for  thee  what  she's  for  me.  Dogging  you 
round  cove  and  haven  and  teaching  me  the  perts  of  speech.  If  you 
spun  your  yarns  to  him  on  the  swishbarque  waves  I  was  spelling 
my  yearns  to  her  over  cottage  cake.  We'll  not  disturb  their  sleep- 

620 


ing  duties.  Let  besoms  be  bosuns.  It's  Phoenix,  dear.  And  the 
flame  is,  hear!  Let's  our  joornee  saintomichael  make  it.  Since  the 
lausafire  has  lost  and  the  book  of  the  depth  is.  Closed.  Come! 
