
wan's  won!  Rip!^  And  his  countinghands 
rose. 

Formalisa.  Loves  deathhow  simple! 
Slutningsbane^. 

Thanks  eversore  much,  Pointcarried !  I  can't 
say  if  it's  the  weight  you  strike  me  to  the 
quick  or  that  red  mass  I  was  looking  at  but  at 
the  present  momentum,  potential  as  I  am,  I'm 
seeing  rayingbogeys  rings  round  me.  Honours 
to  you  and  may  you  be  commended  for  our 
exhibitiveness !  I'd  love  to  take  you  for  a 
bugaboo  ride  and  play  funfer  all  if  you'd  only 
sit  and  be  the  ballasted  bottle  in  the  porker 
barrel.  You  will  deserve  a  rolypoly  as  long 
as  from  here  to  tomorrow.  And  to  hell  with 
them  driftbombs  and  bottom  trailers!  If  my 
maily  was  bag  enough  I'd  send  you  a  toxis. 
By  Saxon  Chromaticus,  you  done  that  lovely 
for  me!  Didn't  he  now,  Nubilina.'*  Tiny  Mite, 
she  studiert  whas?  With  her  listeningin  coif- 
fure, her  dream  of  Endsland's  daylast  and  the 
glorifires  of  being  presainted  maid  to  majesty.^ 
And  less  is  the  pity  for  she  isn't  the  lollypops 
she  easily  might  be  if  she  had  for  a  sample 
Virginia's  air  of  achievement.  That  might 
keep  her  from  throwing  delph.*  As  I  was  saying, 
while  retorting  thanks,  you  make  me  a  reborn 
of  the  cards.  We're  offals  boys  ambows.^ 
For  I've  flicked  up  all  the  crambs  as  they 
crumbed  from  your  table  um,  singing  glory 
allaloserem,  cog  it  out,  here  goes  a  sum.  So 


WITH  EBONISER. 
IN  PIX. 
EUCHRE 
RISK,  MERCI 
BUCKUP,  AND 
MIND  WHO 

you're 

PUCKING, 
FLEBBY. 


^  A  byebye  bingbang  boys!  See  you  Nutcracker  Sunday! 
2  Chinchin  Childamanl  Chapchopchap ! 
^  Wipe  your  glosses  with  what  you  know. 

*  If  I'd  more  in  the  cups  that  peeves  thee  you  could  cracksmith  your  rows 
tureens. 


^  Alls  Sings  and  Alls  Howls. 


304 


Ik 
h 

^^ 

ftit 


The  Twofold 
Truth  and  the 
Conjunctive  Ap- 
petites of  Oppo- 
sitional Orexes. 


Trishagion, 


read  we  in  must  book.  It  tells.  He  prophets 
most  who  bilks  the  best. 

And  that  salubrated  sickenagiaour  of  yaours 
have  teaspilled  all  my  hazeydency .  Forge  away, 
Sunny  Sim!  Sheepshopp.  Bleating  Goad,  it  is 
the  least  of  things,  Eyeinstye  I  Imagine  it,  my 
deep  dartry  dullard!  It  is  hours  giving,  not 
more.  I'm  only  out  for  celebridging  over  the 
guilt  of  the  gap  in  your  hiscitendency.  You  are 
a  hundred  thousand  times  welcome,  old  wort- 
sampler,  hellbeit  you're  just  about  as  culpable 
as  my  woolfell  merger  would  be.  In  effect  I 
could  engage  in  an  energument  over  you  till 
you  were  republicly  royally  toobally  prussic 
blue  in  the  shirt  after.^  Trionfante  di  bestial  And 
if  you're  not  your  bloater's  kipper  may  I  never 
curse  again  on  that  pint  I  took  of  Jamesons. 
Old  Keane  now,  you're  rod,  hook  and  sinker, 
old  jubalee  Keane!  Biddy's  hair.  Biddy's  hair, 
mine  lubber.  Where  is  that  Quin  but  he  sknows 
it  knot  but  what  you  that  are  my  popular  end- 
phthisis  were  born  with  a  solver  arm  up  your 
sleep.  Thou  in  shanty !  Thou  in  scanty  shanty! ! 
Thou  in  slanty  scanty  shanty!!!  Bide  in  your 
hush!  Bide  in  your  hush,  do!  The  law  does 
not  aloud  you  to  shout.  I  plant  my  penstock 
in  your  postern,  chinarpot.  Ave!  And  let  it  be 
to  all  remembrance.  Vale.  Ovocation  of  maid- 
ing waters.^  For  auld  lang  salvy  steyne.  I 
defend  you  to  champ  my  scullion's  praises. 
To  book  alone  belongs  the  lobe.  Foremaster's 
meed^  will  mark  tomorrow  when  we  are 
making  pilscrummage  to  whaboggeryin  with 


COME  SI 

COMPITA 

CUNCTITI- 

TITILATIO.'^ 

CONKERY 

CUNK, 

THIGH- 

THIGHT- 

TICKELLY- 

THIGH,  LIG- 

GERILAG, 

TITTERITOT, 

LEG  IN  A  TEE, 

LUG  IN  A 

LAW,  TWO 

AT  A  TIE, 

THREE  ON  A 

THRICKY 

TILL  OHIO 

OHIO 

lOIOMISS. 


^  From  three  shellings.  A  bluedye  sacrifice. 

2  Not  Kilty.  But  the  manajar  was.  He!  He!  Ho!  Ho!  Ho! 

^  Giglamps,  Soapy  Geyser,  The  Smell  and  Gory  M  Gusty. 


staff,  scarf  and  blessed  wallet  and  our  aureoles 
round  our  neckkandcropfs  where  as  and  when 
Heavysciusgardaddy,  parent  who  offers  sweet- 
meats, will  gift  uns  his  Noblett's  surprize. 
Abnegation  is  With  this  laudable  purpose  in  loud  ability  let 
Adaptation,  us  be  singulfied.  Betwixt  nnie  and  thee  hung 

cong.  Item,  mizpah  ends. 

But  while  the  dial  are  they  doodling  dawd- 
ling over  the  mugs  and  the  grubs?  Oikey, 
Impostolopulos?^  Steady  steady  steady  steady 
steady  studiavimus.  Many  many  many  many 
many  manducabimus.^  We've  had  our  day  at  triv 
and  quad  and  writ  our  bit  as  intermidgets.  Art, 
literature,  politics,  economy,chemistry,  human- 
ity, &c.  Duty,  the  daughter  of  discipline,  the 
Great  Fire  at  the  South  City  Markets,  Belief  in 
Giants  and  the  Banshee,  A  Place  for  Every- 
thing and  Everything  in  its  Place,  Is  the  Pen 
Mightier  than  the  Sword?  A  Successful  Career 
in  the  Civil  Service,^  The  Voice  of  Nature  in 
the  Forest,*  Your  Favorite  Hero  or  Heroine, 
On  the  Benefits  of  Recreation,^  If  Standing 
Stones  Could  Speak,  Devotion  to  the  Feast  of 
the  Indulgence  of  Portiuncula,  The  Dublin 
Metropolitan  Police  Sports  at  Ballsbridge,  De- 
scribe in  Homely  Anglian  Monosyllables  the 
Wreck  of  the  Hesperus,^  What  Morals,  if  any, 
can  be  drawn  from  Diarmuid  and  Grania?^  Do 
Alcibiades.  you  Approve  of  our  Existing  Parliamentary 

Lucretius,  System?  The  Uses  and  Abuses  of  Insects,  A 


Cato. 
Nero, 

Saul.  Aristotle. 
Julius  Caesar. 
Pericles. 
Ovid, 

Adam,  Eve, 
Domitian,  Edipus, 

Socrates. 
Ajax. 

Homer. 

MarcusAurelius. 


ENTER  THE 

COP  AND 

HOW. 

SECURES 

GUBERNANT 

URBIS 

TERROREM. 


^  The  divvy  wants  that  babbling  brook.  Dear  Auntie  Emma  Emma  Eates. 
2  Strike  the  day  off,  the  nightcap's  on  nigh.  Goney,  goney  gone! 
^  R.  C,  disengaged,  good  character,  would  help,  no  salary. 

*  Where  Lily  is  a  Lady  found  the  nettle  rash. 

*  Bubabipibambuli,  I  can  do  as  I  like  with  what's  me  own.  Nyamnyam. 
*•  Able  seaman's  caution. 

'  Rarely  equal  and  distinct  in  all  things. 


306 


Id 
Em 


Uk 
im. 

fm 
kl 
lli 
14. 

im 


Noah,  Plato, 
Horace,  Isaac, 
Tiresias, 
Marius, 
Diogenes, 
Procne,  Philo- 
mela, Abraham, 
Nestor,  Cincin- 
natus,  Leonidas, 
Jacob, 
Theocritus, 
Joseph, 

Fabius,  Samson, 

Cain, 

Esop, 

Prometheus, 

I  Lot,  Pompeius  Magnus, 
Miltiades  Strategos, 
Solon, 

Castor,  Pollux, 
Dionysius, 
Sappho. 
Moses,  Job, 
Catilina, 
Cadmus,  Eiekiel, 
Solomon,  Themistocles. 
Vitellius,  Darius. 


Visit  to  Guinness'  Brewery,  Clubs,  Advan- 
tages of  the  Penny  Post,  When  is  a  Pun  not  a 
Pun?  Is  the  Co-Education  of  Animus  and 
Anima  Wholly  Desirable?^  What  Happened  at 
Clontarf?  Since  our  Brother  Johnathan  Signed 
the  Pledge  or  the  Meditations  of  Two  Young 
Spinsters,^  Why  we  all  Love  our  Little  Lord 
Mayor,  Hengler's  Circus  Entertainment,  On 
Thrift,^  The  Ketde-Griffith-Moynihan  Scheme 
for  a  New  Electricity  Supply,  Travelling  in  the 
Olden  Times,'*  American  Lake  Poetry,  the 
Strangest  Dream  that  was  ever  Halfdreamt.^ 
Circumspection,  Our  Allies  the  Hills,  Are 
Parnellites  Just  towards  Henry  Tudor?  Tell  a 
Friend  in  a  Chatty  Letter  the  Fable  of  the 
Grasshopper  and  the  Ant,^  Santa  Claus,  The 
Shame  of  Slumdom,  The  Roman  Pontiffs 
and  the  Orthodox  Churches,'  The  Thirty 
Hour  Week,  Compare  the  Fistic  Styles  of 
Jimmy  Wilde  and  Jack  Sharkey,  How  to 
Understand  the  Deaf,  Should  Ladies  learn 
Music  or  Mathematics?  Glory  be  to  Saint 
Patrick!  What  is  to  be  found  in  a  Dustheap, 
The  Value  of  Circumstantial  Evidence, 
Should  Spelling?  Outcasts  in  India,  Collecting 
Pewter,  Eu,^  Proper  and  Regular  Diet 
Necessity  For,^  If  You  Do  It  Do  It  Now. 


^  Jests  and  the  Beastalk  with  a  little  rude  hiding  rod. 
^  Wherry  like  the  whaled  prophet  in  a  spookeerie. 
^  What  sins  is  pirn  money  sans  Paris? 

*  I've  lost  the  place,  where  was  I? 

^  Something  happened  that  time  I  was  asleep,  torn  letters  or  was  there 
snow? 

®  Mich  for  his  pain,  Nick  in  his  past. 

^  He  has  toglieresti  in  brodo  all  over  his  agrammatical  parts  of  face  and  as  for 
that  hippofoxphiz,  unlucky  number,  late  for  the  christening  1 

^  Eh,  Monsieur?  Ou,  Monsieur?  Eu,  Monsieur?  Nenni  No,  Monsieur! 

*  Ere  we  hit  the  hay,  brothers,  let's  have  that  response  to  prayer! 

307 


Xenophon, 


Pantocracy. 
Bimutualism. 
Interchangeahil- 
ity.  Naturality, 
Superfetation, 
Stabimobilism, 
Periodicity, 
Consummation. 
Inter penetrative- 
ness.  Predicam- 
ent, Balance  of 
the  factual  by  the 
theoric  Boox  and 
Cooxy  Amallaga- 
mated. 


Delays  are  Dangerous.  Vitavite!  Gobble 
Anne:  tea's  set,  see's  eneugh!  Mox  soonly 
will  be  in  a  split  second  per  the  chancellory 
of  his  exticker. 

Aun 

Do 

Tri 

Car 

Cushi 

Shay 

Shockt 

Ockt 

Ni 

Geg2 

Their  feed  begins. 


MAWMAW, 
LUK,  YOUR 

beeeftay's 

FIZZIN  over! 


KAKAO- 

POETIC 
LIPPUDENIES 
OF  THE 
UNGUMP- 
TIOUS. 


NIGHTLETTER 

With  our  best  youlldied  greedings  to  Pep 
and  Memmy  and  the  old  folkers  below  and 
beyant,  wishing  them  all  very  merry  Incar- 
nations in  this  land  of  the  livvey  and  plenty 
of  preprosperousness  through  their  coming 
new  yonks 

from 

jake,  jack  and  little  sousoucie 
(the  babes  that  mean  too) 


*  Kish  is  for  anticheirst,  and  the  free  of  my  hand  to  him ! 


*  And  gags  for  skool  and  crossbuns  and  whopes  he'll  enjoyimsolff  over 
our  drawings  on  the  line! 

308 


It  may  not  or  maybe  a  no  concer^j  of  the  Guinnesses  but. 

That  the  fright  of  his  light  in  tribalbalbutience  hides  aback  in 
the  doom  of  the  balk  of  the  deaf  but  that  the  height  of  his  life 
from  a  bride's  eye  stammpunct  is  when  a  man  that  means  a  moun- 
tain barring  his  distance  wades  a  lymph  that  plays  the  lazy  win- 
ning she  likes  yet  that  pride  that  bogs  the  party  begs  the  glory  of 
a  wake  while  the  scheme  is  like  your  rumba  round  me  garden, 
allatheses,  with  perhelps  the  prop  of  a  prompt  to  them,  was  now 
or  never  in  Etheria  Deserta,  as  in  Grander  Suburbia,  with  Finn- 
fannfawners,  ruric  or  cospolite,  for  much  or  moment  indispute. 

Whyfor  had  they,  it  is  Hiberio-Miletians  and  Argloe-Noremen, 
donated  him,  birth  of  an  otion  that  was  breeder  to  sweatoslaves, 
as  mysterbolder,  forced  in  their  waste,  and  as  for  Ibdullin  what  of 
Himana,  that  their  tolvtubular  high  fidelity  daildialler,  as  modern 
as  tomorrow  afternoon  and  in  appearance  up  to  the  minute,  (hear- 
ing that  anybody  in  that  ruad  duchy  of  Wollinstown  schemed 
to  halve  the  wrong  type  of  date)  equipped  with  supershielded  um- 
brella antennas  for  distance  getting  and  connected  by  the  magnetic 
links  of  a  Bellini-Tosti  coupling  system  with  a  vitaltone  speaker, 
capable  of  capturing  skybuddies^  harbour  craft  emittences,  key 
clickings,  vaticum  cleaners,  due  to  woman  formed  mobile  or 
man_made  static  and  bawling  the  whowle  hamshack  and  wobble 
down  in  an  eliminium  sounds  pound  so  as  to  serve  him  up  a  mele- 
goturny  marygoraumd,  eclectrically  filtered  for  allirish  earths  and 

309 


ohmes.  This  harmonic  condenser  enginium  (the  Mole)  they 
caused  to  be  worked  from  a  magazine  battery  (called  the  Mimmim 
Bimbim  patent  number  1132,  Thorpetersen  and  Synds,  Joms- 
borg,  Selverbergen)  which  was  tuned  up  by  twintriodic  singul- 
valvulous  pipelines  (lackslipping  along  as  if  their  liffing  deepunded 
on  it)  with  a  howdrocephalous  enlargement,  a  gain  control  of 
circumcentric  megacycles,  ranging  from  the  antidulibnium  onto 
the  serostaatarean.  They  finally  caused,  or  most  leastways  brung  it 
about  somehows,  (that)  the  pip  of  the  lin  (to)  pinnatrate  inthro 
an  auricular  forfickle  (known  as  the  Vakingfar  sleeper,  mono- 
fractured  by  Piaras  UaRhuamhaighaudhlug,  tympan  founder, 
Eustache  Straight,  Bauliaughacleeagh)  a  meatous  conch  culpable 
of  cunduncing  Naul  and  Santry  and  the  forty  routs  of  Corthy 
with  the  concertiums  of  the  Brythyc  Symmonds  Guild,  the 
Ropemakers  Reunion,  the  Variagated  Peddlars  Barringoy  Bni- 
brthirhd,  the  Askold  Olegsonder  Crowds  of  the  O'Keef-Rosses 
and  Rhosso-Keevers  of  Zastwoking,  the  Ligue  of  Yahooth  o.s.v. 
so  as  to  lall  the  bygone  dozed  they  arborised  around,  up  his 
corpular  fruent  and  down  his  reuctionary  buckling,  hummer, 
enville  and  cstorrap  (the  man  of  Iren,  thore's  Curlymane  for 
you !),  lill  the  lubberendth  of  his  otological  life. 

House  of  call  is  all  their  evenbreads  though  its  cartomance 
hallucinate  like  an  erection  in  the  night  the  mummery  of  whose 
deed,  a  lur  of  Nur,  immerges  a  mirage  in  a  merror,  for  it  is  where 
by  muzzinmessed  for  one  watthour,  bilaws  below,  till  time  jings 
pleas,  that  host  of  a  bottlefilled,  the  bulkily  hulkwight,  hunter's 
pink  of  face,  an  orel  orioled,  is  in  on  a  bout  to  be  unbulging  an 
o'connell's,  the  true  one,  all  seethic,  a  luckybock,  pledge  of  the 
stoup,  whilom  his  canterberry  bellseyes  wink  wickeding  indtil 
the  teller,  oyne  of  an  oustman  in  skull  of  skand.  Yet  is  it,  this 
ale  of  man,  for  him,  our  hubuljoynted,  just  a  tug  and  a  fistful  as 
for  Culsen,  the  Patagoreyan,  chieftain  of  chokanchuckers  and  his 
moyety  joyant,  under  the  foamer  dispensation  when  he  pullupped 
the  turfeycork  by  the  greats  of  gobble  out  of  Lougk  Neagk. 
When,  pressures  be  to  our  hoary  frother,  the  pop  gave  his  sullen 
bulletaction  and,  bilge,  sled  a  movement  of  catharic  emulsipotion 

310 


J. 


SAM  , 
'  ( pj\<  ^f^^) 


>00 


f 


7^ 


down  the  sloppery  slide  of  a  slaunty  to  tilted  lift-ye-landsmen. 
Allamin.  Which  in  the  ambit  of  its  orbit  heaved  a  sink  her  sailer 
alongside  of  a  drink  her  drainer  from  the  basses  brothers,  those 
two  theygottheres. 

It  was  long  after  once  there  was  a  lealand  in  the  luffing  ore  it 
was  less  after  lives  thor  a  toyler  in  the  tawn  at  all  ohr  it  was  note 
before  he  drew  out  the  moddle  of  Kersse  by  jerkin  his  dressing 
but  and  or  it  was  not  before  athwartships  he  buttonhaled  the 
Norweeger's  capstan.  ^i^:^  i-'i^i'-  -  """^ 

So  he  sought  with  the  lobestir  claw  of  his  propencil  the  clue  of 
the  wickser  in  his  ear.  O,  lord  of  the  barrels,  comer  forth  from 
Anow  (I  have  not  mislaid  the  key  of  Efas-Taem),  O,  Ana,  bright 
lady,  comer  forth  from  Thenanow  (I  have  not  left  temptation  in 
the  path  of  the  sweeper  of  the  threshold),  O ! 

But  first,  strongbowth,  they  would  deal  death  to  a  drinking. 
Link  of  a  leadder,  dubble  in  it,  slake  your  thirdst  thoughts  awake 
with  it.  Our  svalyes  are  svalves  aroon!  We  rescue  thee,  O  Baass, 
from  the  damp  earth  and  honour  thee.  O  Connibell,  with  mouth 
burial!  So  was  done,  neat  and  trig.  Up  draught  and  whet 
them! 

—  Then  sagd  he  to  the  ship's  husband.  And  in  his  translaten- 
tic  norjankeltian.  Hwere  can  a  ketch  or  hook  alive  a  suit  and  ry  F^6JT 
sowterkins.^  Soot!  sayd  the  ship's  husband,  knowing  the  language, 
here  is  tayleren.  Ashe  and  Whitehead,  closechop,  successor  to. 
Ahorror,  he  sayd,  canting  around  to  that  beddest  his  friend,  the 
tayler,  for  finixed  coulpure,  chunk  pulley  muchy  chink  topside  "^^^"^-^ 
numpa  one  sellafella^  fake  an  capstan  make  and  shoot !  Manning  to  -^^^^w 


l^Vr  sayle  of  clothse  for  his  lady  her  master  whose  to  be  precised  of  a  ^  ^^^-^j^ 
peer  of  trouders  under  the  pattern  of  a  cassack.  Let  me  prove,  I 
pray  thee,  but  this  once,  sazd  Mengarments,  saving  the  mouth- 
brand  from  his  firepool.  He  spit  in  his  faist  (beggin):  he  tape  the 
raw  baste  (paddin):  he  planked  his  pledge  (as  dib  is  a  dab):  and  he 
tog  his  fringe  sleeve  (buthock  lad,  fur  whale).  Alloy  for  allay  and 
this  toolth  for  that  soolth.  Lick  it  and  like  it.  A  barter,  a  parter. 
And  plenty  good  enough,  neighbour  Norreys,  every  bit  and 
grain.  And  the  ship's  husband  brokecurst  after  him  to  hail  the 

311  V/ 


^  lugger.  Stolp,  tief,  stolp,  come  bag  to  Moy  Eireann!  And  the 
^ <2l       Norweeger's  capstan  swaradeed,  some  blowfish  out  of  schooling: 

All  lykkehud !  Below  taiyor  he  ikan  heavin  sets.  But  they  brokenht^^^-^^*^ 
waters  and  they  made  whole  waters  at  they  surfered  bark  to  the 
lots  of  his  vauce.  And  aweigh  he  yankered  on  the  Norgean  run  so 
that  seven  sailend  sonnenrpunders  was  he  breastbare  to  the  brina- 
bath,  where  bottoms  out  has  fatthoms  full,  fram  Franz  Jose  \\(y<^ 
Land  til  Cabo  Thormendoso,  evenstarde  and  risingsoon.  Up  the 
Rivor  Tanneiry  and  down  the  Golfe  Desombres.  Farety  days  and 
fearty  nights.  Enjoy  yourself,  O  maremen!  And  the  tides  made, 
veer  and  haul,  and  the  times  marred,  rear  and  fall,  and,  holey 
bucket,  dipned  he  raign! 

—  Hump!  Hump!  bassed  the  broaders-in-laugh  with  a  quick 
piddysnip  that  wee  halfbit  a  second. 

— I  will  do  that,  sazd  Kersse,  mainingstaying  the  rigout  for  her 
wife's  lairdship.  Nett  sew.'*  they  hunched  back  at  the  earpicker. 

But  old  sporty,  as  endth  lord,  in  ryehouse  reigner,  he  nought 
feared  crimp  or  cramp  of  shore  sharks,  plotsome  to  getsome.  It 
was  whol  niet  godthaab  of  errol  Loritz  off  his  Cape  of  Good 
Howthe  and  his  trippertrice  loretta  lady,  a  maomette  to  his 
monetone,  with  twy  twy  twinky  her  stone  hairpins,  only  not, 
if  not,  a  queen  of  Prancess  their  telling  tabled  who  was  for  his  —  "  > 
seeming  a  casket  through  the  heavenly,  nay,  heart  of  the  sweet 
