your  eyes  darkled  on  the  autocart  of  the  bringfast  cable  but  here 
till  youre  martimorphysed  please  sit  still  face  to  face.  For  if  the 
shorth  of  your  skorth  falls  down  to  his  knees  pray  how  wrong 
will  he  look  till  he  rises?  Not  before  Gravesend  is  commuted.  But 
now  reappears  Autist  Algy,  the  pulcherman  and  would-do  per- 
former, oleas  Mr  Smuth,  stated  by  the  vice  crusaders  to  be  well 

434 


i 


known  to  all  the  dallytaunties  in  and  near  the  ciudad  of  Buellas 
Arias,  taking  you  to  the  playguehouse  to  see  the  Smirching  of 
Venus  and  asking  with  whispered  offers  in  a  very  low  bearded 
voice,  with  a  nice  little  tiny  manner  and  in  a  very  nice  little  tony 
way,  won't  you  be  an  artist's  moral  and  pose  in  your  nudies  as  a 
local  esthetic  before  voluble  old  masters,  introducing  you,  left 
to  right  the  party  comprises,  to  hogarths  like  Bottisilly  and 
Titteretto  and  Vergognese  and  Coraggio  with  their  extrahand 
Mazzaccio,  plus  the  usual  bilker's  dozen  of  dowdycameramen. 
And  the  volses  of  lewd  Buylan,  for  innocence !  And  the  phylli- 
sophies  of  Bussup  Bulkeley.  O,  the  frecklessness  of  the  giddies 
nouveautays!  There's  many's  the  icepolled  globetopper  is  haunt- 
ed by  the  hottest  spot  under  his  equator  like  Ramrod,  the  meaty 
hunter,  always  jaeger  for  a  thrust.  The  back  beautiful,  the  un- 
draped  divine!  And  Suzy's  Moedl's  with  their  Blue  Danuboyes! 
All  blah!  Viper's  vapid  vilest!  Put  off  the  old  man  at  the  very 
font  and  get  right  on  with  the  nutty  sparker  round  the  back. 
Slip  your  oval  out  of  touch  and  let  the  paravis  be  your  goal. 
Up  leather.  Prunella,  convert  your  try!  Stick  wicks  in  your  ear- 
shells  when  you  hear  the  prompter's  voice.  Look  on  a  boa  in 
his  beauty  and  you'll  never  more  wear  your  strawberry  leaves. 
Rely  on  the  relic.  What  bondman  ever  you  bind  on  earth  I'll  be 
bound  'twas  combined  in  hemel.  Keep  airly  hores  and  the  worm 
is  yores.  Dress  the  pussy  for  her  nighty  and  follow  her  piggy- 
tails  up  their  way  to  Winkyland.  See  little  poupeep  she's  firsht 
ashleep.  After  having  sat  your  poetries  and  you  know  what 
happens  when  chine  throws  over  jupan.  Go  to  doss  with 
the  poulterer,  you  understand,  and  shake  up  with  the  milch- 
mand.  The  Sully  van  vultures  are  on  the  prowl.  And  the 
hailies  fingringmaries.  Tobaccos  tabu  and  toboggan's  a  back 
seat.  Secret  satieties  and  onanymous  letters  make  the  great  un- 
watched  as  bad  as  their  betters.  Don't  on  any  account  acquire 
a  paunchon  for  that  alltoocommon  fagbutt  habit  of  frequenting 
and  chumming  together  with  the  braces  of  couples  in  Mr  Tun- 
nelly's  hallways  (smash  it)  wriggling  with  lowcusses  and  cock- 
chafers and  vamps  and  rodants,  with  the  end  to  commit  acts  of 

435 


interstipital  indecency  as  between  twineties  and  tapegarters. 
fingerpats  on  fondlepets,  under  the  couvrefeu  act.  It's  the  thin 
end;  wedge  your  steps !  Your  high  powered  hefty  hoyden  thinks 
nothing  of  ramping  through  a  whole  suite  of  smokeless  hus- 
bands. Three  minutes  Fm  counting  you.  Woooooon.  No  triching 
now!  Give  me  that  when  I  tell  you!  Raga^a  ladra!  And  is  that 
any  place  to  be  smuggling  his  madam's  apples  up.'^  Deceitful 
jade.  Gee  wedge!  Begor,  I  like  the  way  they're  half  cooked. 
Hold,  flay,  grill,  fire  that  laney  feeling  for  kosenkissing  disgeni- 
cally  within  the  proscribed  limits  like  Population  Peg  on  a  hint  or 
twim  clandestinely  does  be  doing  to  Temptation  Tom,  atkings 
questions  in  barely  and  snakking  svarewords  like  a  nursemagd. 
While  there's  men-a'war  on  the  say  there'll  be  loves-o'women 
on  the  do.  Love  through  the  usual  channels,  cisternbrothelly, 
when  properly  disinfected  and  taken  neat  in  the  generable  way 
upon  retiring  to  roost  in  the  company  of  a  husband-in-law  or 
other  respectable  relative  of  an  apposite  sex,  not  love  that  leads 
by  the  nose  as  I  foresmellt  but  canalised  love,  you  understand, 
does  a  felon  good,  suspiciously  if  he  has  a  slugger's  liver  but  I 
cannot  belabour  the  point  too  ardently  (and  after  the  lessions  of 
experience  I  speak  from  inspiration)  that  fetid  spirits  is  the  thief 
of  prurities,  so  none  of  your  twenty  rod  cherrywhisks,  me 
daughter!  At  the  Cat  and  Coney  or  the  Spotted  Dog.  And  at 
2bis  Lot's  Road.  When  parties  get  tight  for  each  other  they  lose 
all  respect  together.  By  the  stench  of  her  fizzle  and  the  glib  of  her 
gab  know  the  drunken  draggletail  Dublin  drab.  You'll  pay  for 
each  bally  sorraday  night  every  billing  sumday  morning.  When 
the  night  is  in  May  and  the  moon  shines  might.  We  won't  meeth 
in  Navan  till  you  try  to  give  the  Kellsfrieclub  the  goby.  Hill  or 
hollow,  Hull  or  Hague !  And  beware  how  you  dare  of  wet  cock- 
tails in  Kildare  or  the  same  may  see  your  wedding  driving  home 
from  your  wake.  Mades  of  ashens  when  you  flirt  spoil  the  lad 
but  spare  his  shirt!  Lay  your  lilylike  long  his  shoulder  but  buck 
back  if  he  buts  bolder  and  just  hep  your  homely  hop  and  heed 
no  horning  but  if  you've  got  some  brainy  notion  to  raise  cancan 
and  rouse  commotion  I'll  be  apt  to  flail  that  tail  for  you  till  it's 

436 


I 


1 


horning.  Let  the  love  ladleliked  at  the  eye  girde  your  gastricks 
in  the  gym.  Nor  must  you  omit  to  screw  the  lid  firmly  on  that 
jazz  jiggery  and  kick  starts.  Bumping  races  on  the  flat  and  point 
to  point  over  obstacles.  Ride  wheeling  that  acclivisciously  up 
windy  Rutland  Rise  and  insighting  rebellious  northers  before  the 
saunter  of  the  city  of  Dunlob.  Then  breretonbiking  on  the  free 
with  your  airs  of  go-be-dee  and  your  heels  upon  the  handlebars. 
Berrboel  brazenness !  No,  before  your  corselage  rib  is  decartilaged, 
that  is  to  mean  if  you  have  visceral  ptossis,  my  point  is,  making 
allowances  for  the  fads  of  your  weak  abdominal  wall  and  your 
liver  asprewl,  vinvin,  vinvin,  or  should  you  feel,  in  shorts,  as 
though  you  needed  healthy  physicking  exorcise  to  flush  your 
kidneys,  you  understand,  and  move  that  twelffinger  bowel  and 
threadworm  inhibitating  it,  lassy,  and  perspire  freely,  lict  your 
lector  in  the  lobby  and  why  out  you  go  by  the  ostiary  on  to 
the  dirt  track  and  skip !  Be  a  sportive.  Deal  with  Nature  the  great 
greengrocer  and  pay  regularly  the  monthlies.  Your  Punt's  Per- 
fume's only  in  the  hatpinny  shop  beside  the  reek  of  the  rawny. 
It's  more  important  than  air — I  mean  than  eats — air  (Oop,  I 
never  open  momouth  but  I  pack  mefood  in  it)  and  promotes  that 
natural  emotion.  Stamp  out  bad  eggs.  Why  so  many  puddings 
prove  disappointing,  as  Dietician  says,  in  Creature  Comforts 
Causeries,  and  why  so  much  soup  is  so  muck  slop.  If  we 
could  fatten  on  the  elizabeetons  we  wouldn't  have  teeth  like 
the  hippopotamians.  However.  Likewise  if  I  were  in  your 
envelope  shirt  I'd  keep  my  weathereye  well  cocked  open  for 
your  furnished  lodgers  paying  for  their  feed  on  tally  with 
company  and  piano  tunes.  Only  stuprifying  yourself!  The  too 
friendly  friend  sort,  Mazourikawitch  or  some  other  sukinsin  of 
a  vitch,  who  he's  kommen  from  olt  Pannonia  on  this  porpoise 
whom  sue  stooderin  about  the  maul  and  femurl  artickles  and  who 
mix  himself  so  at  home  mid  the  musik  and  spanks  the  ivory 
that  lovely  for  this  your  Mistro  Melosiosus  MacShine  MacShane 
may  soon  prove  your  undoing  and  bane  through  the  succeeding 
years  of  rain  should  you,  whilst  Jaun  is  from  home,  get  used  to 
basking  in  his  loverslowlap,  inordinately  clad,  moustacheteasing, 

437 


when  closehended  together  behind  locked  doors,  kissing  steadily, 
(malbongusta,  it's  not  the  thing  you  know!)  with  the  calfloving 
selfseeker,  under  the  influence  of  woman,  inching  up  to  you,  dis- 
arranging your  modesties  and  fumbling  with  his  forte  paws  in  your 
bodice  after  your  billy  doos  twy  as  a  first  go  oif  (take  care,  would 
you  stray  and  split  on  me!)  and  going  on  doing  his  idiot  every 
time  you  gave  him  his  chance  to  get  thick  and  play  pigglywiggly, 
making  much  of  you,  bilgetalking  like  a  ditherer,  gougouzoug, 
about  your  glad  neck  and  the  round  globe  and  the  white  milk  and 
the  red  raspberries  (O  horrifier !)  and  prying  down  furthermore  to 
chance  his  lucky  arm  with  his  pregnant  questions  up  to  our  past 
lives.  What  has  that  caught  to  sing  with  him?  The  next  fling 
you'll  be  squitting  on  the  Tubber  Nakel,  pouring  pitchers  to  the 
well  for  old  Gloatsdane's  glorification  and  the  postequities  of 
the  Black  Watch,  peeping  private  from  the  Bush  and  Rangers. 
And  our  local  busybody,  talker-go-bragk.  Worse  again!  Ofl"  of 
that  praying  fan  on  to  them  priars !  It  would  be  a  whorable  state 
of  affairs  altogether  for  the  redcolumnists  of  presswritten  epics, 
Peter  Paragraph  and  Paulus  Puff,  (Fm  keepsoaking  them  to  cover 
my  concerts)  to  get  ahold  of  for  their  balloons  and  shoot  you 
private  by  surprise,  considering  the  marriage  slump  that's  on  this 
oil  age  and  pulexes  three  shillings  a  pint  and  wives  at  six  and 
seven  when  domestic  calamities  belame  par  and  newlaids  bellow 
mar  for  the  twenty  twotoosent  time  thwealthy  took  thousands 
in  the  slack  march  of  civilisation  were  you,  becoming  guilty  of 
unleckylike  intoxication  to  have  and  to  hold,  to  pig  and  to  pay 
direct  connection,  qua  intervener,  with  a  prominent  married  mem- 
ber of  the  vicereeking  squad  and,  in  consequence  of  the  therein- 
under  subpenas,  be  flummoxed  to  the  second  degree  by  becoming  a 
detestificated  companykeeper  on  the  dammymonde  of  Luca- 
lamplight.  Anything  but  that,  for  the  fear  and  love  of  gold !  Once 
and  for  all,  I'll  have  no  college  swankies  (you  see,  I  am  well 
voiced  in  love's  arsenal  and  all  its  overtures  from  collion  boys 
to  colleen  bawns  so  I  have  every  reason  to  know  that  rogues' 
gallery  of  nightbirds  and  bitchfanciers,  lucky  duffs  and  light 
lindsays,  haughty  hamiltons  and  gay  gordons,  dosed,  doctored 

438 


I 


i 


and  otherwise,  messing  around  skirts  and  what  their  fickling  in- 
tentions look  like,  you  make  up  your  mind  to  that)  trespassing 
on  your  danger  zone  in  the  dancer  years.  If  ever  I  catch  you  at  it, 
mind,  it's  you  that  will  cocottch  it!  Til  tackle  you  to  feel  if  you 
have  a  few  devils  in  you.  Holy  gun,  I'll  give  it  to  you,  hot,  high 
and  heavy  before  you  can  say  sedro!  Or  may  the  maledictions 
of  Lousyfear  fall  like  nettlerash  on  the  white  friar's  father  that 
converted  from  moonshine  the  fostermother  of  the  first  nancy- 
free  that  ran  off  after  the  trumpadour  that  mangled  Moore's  melo- 
dies and  so  upturned  the  tubshead  of  the  stardaft  journal  writer 
to  inspire  the  prime  finisher  to  fellhim  the  firtree  out  of  which 
Cooper  Funnymore  planed  the  flat  of  the  beerbarrel  on  which 
my  grandydad's  lustiest  sat  his  seat  of  unwisdom  with  my  tante's 
petted  sister  for  the  cause  of  his  joy!  Amene. 

Poof!  There's  puff  for  ye,  begor,  and  planxty  of  it,  all  abound 
me  breadth!  Glor  galore  and  glory  be!  As  broad  as  its  lung  and 
as  long  as  a  line !  The  valiantine  vaux  of  Venerable  Val  Vous- 
dem.  If  my  jaws  must  brass  away  like  the  due  drops  on  my  lay. 
And  the  topnoted  delivery  you'd  expected  be  me  invoice!  Theo 
Dunnohoo's  warning  from  Daddy  O'Dowd.  Whoo.^  What  I'm 
wondering  to  myselfwhose  for  there's  a  strong  tendency,  to  put 
it  mildly,  by  making  me  the  medium.  I  feel  spirts  of  itchery  out- 
ching  out  from  all  over  me  and  only  for  the  sludgehummer's 
force  in  my  hand  to  hold  them  the  darkens  alone  knows  what' 11 
who'll  be  saying  of  next.  However.  Now,  before  my  upperotic 
rogister,  something  nice.  Now.^  Dear  Sister,  in  perfect  leave  again  I 
say  take  a  brokerly  advice  and  keep  it  to  yourself  that  we,  Jaun,  first 
of  our  name  here  now  make  all  receptacles  of,  free  of  price.  Easy, 
my  dear,  if  they  tingle  you  either  say  nothing  or  nod.  No  cheeka- 
cheek  with  chipperchapper,  you  and  your  last  mashboy  and  the 
padre  in  the  pulpbox  enumerating  you  his  nostrums.  Be  vacillant 
over  those  vigilant  who  would  leave  you  to  belave  black  on  white. 
Close  in  for  psychical  hijiniks  as  well  but  fight  shy  of  mugpunters. 
I'd  burn  the  books  that  grieve  you  and  light  an  allassundrian  bom- 
pyre  that  would  suffragate  Tome  Plyfire  or  Zolfanerole.  Perousse 
instate  your  Weekly  Standerd^  our  verile  organ  that  is  ethelred  by  all  ^'^ 

439 


pressdom.  Apply  your  five  wits  to  the  four  verilatest.  The  Arsdi- 
ken's  An  Traitey  on  Miracula  or  Viewed  to  Death  hy  a  Priest 
Hunter  is  still  first  in  the  field  despite  the  castle  bar,  William 
Archer's  a  rompan  good  cathalogue  and  he'll  give  you  a  riser  on 
the  route  to  our  nazional  labronry.  Skim  over  Through  Hell 
with  the  Papes  (mostly  boys)  by  the  divine  comic  Denti  Alligator 
(exsponging  your  index)  and  find  a  quip  in  a  quire  arisus  aream 
from  bastardtitle  to  father)  ohnson.  Swear  aloud  by  pious  fiction 
the  like  of  Lentil  Lore  by  Carnival  Cullen  or  that  Percy  Wynns 
of  our  S.  J.  Finn's  or  Pease  in  Plenty  by  the  Curer  of  Wars, 
licensed  and  censered  by  our  most  picturesque  prelates.  Their 
Graces  of  Linzen  and  Petitbois,  bishops  of  Hibernites,  licet  ut 
lebanusj  for  expansion  on  the  promises,  the  two  best  sells  on  the 
market  this  luckiest  year,  set  up  by  Gill  the  father,  put  out  by  Gill 
the  son  and  circulating  disimally  at  Gillydehooly's  Cost.  Strike  up 
a  nodding  acquaintance  for  our  doctrine  with  the  works  of  old 
Mrs  Trot,  senior,  and  Manoel  Canter,  junior,  and  Loper  de  Figas, 
nates  maximum.  I  used  to  follow  Mary  Liddlelambe's  flitsy  tales, 
espicially  with  the  scentaminted  sauce.  Sifted  science  will  do  your 
arts  good.  Egg  Laid  by  Former  Cock  and  With  Flageolettes  in  Send 
Fanciesland,  Chiefly  girls.  Trip  over  sacramental  tea  into  the  long 
lives  of  our  saints  and  saucerdotes,  with  vignettes,  cut  short  into 
instructual  primers  by  those  in  authority  for  the  bittermint  of  your 
soughts.  Forfet  not  the  palsied.  Light  a  match  for  poor  old 
Contrabally  and  send  some  balmoil  for  the  schizmatics.  A  hemd 
in  need  is  aye  a  friendly  deed.  Remember,  maid,  thou  dust  art 
powder  but  Cinderella  thou  must  return  (what  are  you  robbing 
her  sleeve  for,  Ruby.^  And  pull  in  your  tongue,  Polly!).  Cog  that 
out  of  your  teen  times,  everyone.  The  lad  who  brooks  no 
breaches  lifts  the  lass  that  toffs  a  tailor.  How  dare  ye  be  laughing 
out  of  your  mouthshine  at  the  lack  of  that.^  Keep  cool  your  fresh 
chastity  which  is  far  better  far.  Sooner  than  part  with  that  vesta- 
lite  emerald  of  the  first  importance,  descended  to  me  by  far  from 
our  family,  which  you  treasure  up  so  closely  where  extremes 
meet,  nay,  mozzed  lesmended,  rather  let  the  whole  ekumene 
universe  belong  to  merry  Hal  and  do  whatever  his  Mary  well 

440 


i 


t 


I 


likes.  When  the  gong  goes  for  hornets-two-nest  marriage  step 
into  your  harness  and  strip  off  that  nullity  suit.  Faminy,  hold 
back!  For  the  race  is  to  the  rashest  of,  the  romping,  jomping 
rushes  of.  Haul  Seton's  down,  black,  green  and  grey,  and  hoist 
Mikealy's  whey  and  sawdust.  What's  overdressed  if  underclothed.'^ 
Poposht  forstake  me  knot  where  there's  white  lets  ope.  Whisht! 
Blesht  she  that  walked  with  good  Jook  Humprey  for  he  made 
her  happytight.  Go!  You  can  down  all  the  dripping  you  can 
dumple  to,  and  buffkid  scouse  too  ad  libidinum,  in  these  lassi- 
tudes if  you've  parents  and  things  to  look  after.  That  was  what 
stuck  to  the  Comtesse  Cantilene  while  she  was  sticking  out  Mavis 
Toffeelips  to  feed  her  soprannated  huspals,  and  it  is  henceforth 
associated  with  her  names.  La  Dreeping!  Die  Droopink!  The  v-^  '  ^"  '^^ 
inimitable  in  puresuet  of  the  inevitable!  There's  nothing  to  touch 
it,  we  are  taucht,  unless  she'd  care  for  a  mouthpull  of  white  pud- 
ding for  the  wish  is  on  her  rose  marine  and  the  lunchlight  in  her 
eye,  so  when  you  pet  the  rollingpin  write  my  name  on  the  pie. 
Guard  that  gem.  Sissy,  rich  and  rare,  ses  he.  In  this  cold  old 
worold  who'll  feel  it?  Hum!  The  jewel  you're  all  so  cracked 
about  there's  flitty  few  of  them  gets  it  for  there's  nothing  now 
but  the  sable  stoles  and  a  runabout  to  match  it.  Sing  him  a  ring. 
Touch  me  low.  And  I'll  lech  ye  so,  my  soandso.  Show  and  show. 
Show  on  show.  She.  Shoe.  Shone. 

Divulge,  sjuddenly  jouted  out  hardworking  Jaun,  kicking 
the  console  to  his  double  and  braying  aloud  like  Brahaam's  ass,  9t^/^^^r^^ 
and,  as  his  voixehumanar  swelled  to  great,  clenching  his  manlies, 
so  highly  strong  was  he,  man,  and  gradually  quite  warming  to 
her  (there  must  have  been  a  power  of  kinantics  in  that  buel 
of  gruel  he  gobed  at  bedgo)  divorce  into  me  and  say  the  cur- 
name  in  undress  (if  you  get  into  trouble  with  a  party  you  are 
not  likely  to  forget  his  appearance  either)  of  any  lapwhelp  or 
sleevemongrel  who  talks  to  you  upon  the  road  where  he  tuck 
you  to  be  a  roller,  O,  (the  goattanned  saxopeeler  upshotdown 
chigs  peel  of  him!)  and  volunteers  to  trifle  with  your  round- 
lings  for  profferred  glass  and  dough,  the  marrying  hand  that 
his  leisure  repents  of,  without  taking  out  his  proper  password 

441 


from  the  eligible  ministriss  for  affairs  with  the  black  fremdling, 
that  enemy  of  our  country,  in  a  cleanlooking  light  and  I  don't 
care  a  tongser's  tammany  hang  who  the  mucky  is  nor  twoo 
hoots  in  the  corner  nor  three  shouts  on  a  hill  (were  he  even 
a  constantineal  namesuch  of  my  very  own,  Attaboy  Knowling, 
and  like  enoch  to  my  townmajor  ancestors,  the  two  that  are 
taking  out  their  divorces  in  the  Spooksbury  courts  circuits, 
Rere  Uncle  Remus,  the  Baas  of  Eboracum  and  Old  Father 
Ulissabon  Knickerbocker,  the  lanky  sire  of  Wolverhampton, 
about  their  bristelings),  but  as  true  as  there's  a  soke  for  sakes  in 
Twoways  Peterborough  and  sure  as  home  we  come  to  newsky 
prospect  from  west  the  wave  on  schedule  time  (if  I  came  any 
quicker  I'll  be  right  back  before  I  left)  from  the  land  of  breach 
of  promise  with  Brendan's  mantle  whitening  the  Kerribrasilian 
sea  and  March's  pebbles  spinning  from  beneath  our  footslips  to 
carry  fire  and  sword,  rest  insured  that  as  we  value  the  very  name 
in  sister  that  as  soon  as  we  do  possibly  it  will  be  a  poor  lookout 
for  that  insister.  He's  a  markt  man  from  that  hour.  And  why  do 
we  say  that,  you  may  query  me?  Quary?  Guess!  Call'st  thou? 
Think  and  think  and  think,  I  urge  on  you.  Muffed!  The  wrong 
porridge.  You  are  an  ignoratis!  Because  then  probably  we'll 
dumb  well  soon  show  him  what  the  Shaun  way  is  like  how  we'll 
go  a  long  way  towards  breaking  his  outsider's  face  for  him  for 
making  up  to  you  with  his  bringthee  balm  of  Gaylad  and  his 
singthee  songs  of  Arupee,  chancetrying  my  ward's  head  into 
sanctuary  before  feeling  with  his  two  dimensions  for  your  nup- 
tial dito.  Ohibow,  if  I  was  Blonderboss  I'd  gooandfrighthisdual- 
man!  Now,  we'll  tell  you  what  we'll  do  to  be  sicker  instead  of 
compensation.  We'll  he'll  burst  our  his  mouth  like  Leary  to  the 
Leinsterface  and  reduce  he'll  we'll  ournhisn  liniments  to  a 
poolp.  Open  the  door  softly,  somebody  wants  you,  dear!  You'll 
hear  him  calling  you,  bump,  like  a  blizz,  in  the  muezzin  of  the 
turkest  night.  Come  on  now,  pillarbox!  I'll  stiffen  your  scribeall, 
broken  reed!  That'll  be  it,  grand  operoar  style,  even  should  I, 
with  my  sleuts  of  hogpew  and  cheekas,  have  to  coomb  the  brash 
of  the  libs  round  Close  Saint  Patrice  to  lay  my  louseboob  on  his 

442 


i 


behaitch  like  solitar.  We  are  all  eyes.  I  have  his  quoram  of 
images  all  on  my  retinue,  Mohomadhawn  Mike.  Brassup !  More- 
over after  that,  bad  manners  to  me,  if  I  don't  think  strongly  about 
giving  the  brotherkeeper  into  custody  to  the  first  police  bubby 
cunstabless  of  Dora's  Diehards  in  the  field  I  might  chance  to  pwuM>= 
follopon.  Or  for  that  matter,  for  your  information,  if  I  get  the 
wind  up  what  do  you  bet  in  the  buckets  of  my  wrath  I  mightn't 
even  take  it  into  my  progromme,  as  sweet  course,  to  do  a  rash  act 
and  pitch  in  and  swing  for  your  perfect  stranger  in  the  meadow 
of  heppiness  and  then  wipe  the  street  up  with  the  clonmellian, 
pending  my  bringing  proceedings  verses  the  joyboy  before  a 
bunch  of  magistrafes  and  twelve  good  and  gleeful  men?  Filius 
nullius  per  fas  et  nefas.  It  should  prove  more  or  less  of  an  event 
and  show  the  widest  federal  in  my  cup.  He'll  have  pansements 
then  for  his  pensamientos,  howling  for  peace.  Pretty  knocks,  I 
promise  him  with  plenty  burkes  for  his  shins.  Dumnlimn  wimn 
humn.  In  which  case  I'll  not  be  complete  in  fighting  lust  until  I 
contrive  to  half  kill  your  Charley  you're  my  darling  for  you  and 
send  him  to  Home  Surgeon  Hume,  the  algebrist,  before  his  ap- 
pointed time,  particularly  should  he  turn  out  to  be  a  man  in  brown 
about  town,  Rollo  the  Gunger,  son  of  a  wants  a  flurewaltzer  to 
Arnolff's,  picking  up  ideas,  of  well  over  or  about  fiftysix  or  so, 
pithecoid  proportions,  with  perhops  five  foot  eight,  the  usual 
X  Y  Z  type,  R.C.  Toe  H,  nothing  but  claret,  not  in  the  studbook 
by  a  long  stortch,  with  a  toothbrush  moustache  and  jawcrockeries, 
alias  grinner  through  collar,  and  of  course  no  beard,  meat  and 
colmans  suit,  with  tar's  baggy  slacks,  obviously  too  roomy  for 
him  and  springside  boots,  washing  tie,  Father  Mathew's  bridge 
pin,  sipping  some  Wheatley's  at  Rhoss's  on  a  barstool,  with  some 
pubpal  of  the  Olaf  Stout  kidney,  always  trying  to  poorchase  mov- 
ables by  hebdomedaries  for  to  putt  in  a  new  house  to  loot,  cigarette 
in  his  holder,  with  a  good  job  and  pension  in  Buinness's,  what 
about  our  trip  to  Normandy  style  conversation,  with  an  oc- 
casional they  say  that  filmacoulored  featured  at  the  Mothrapurl 
skrene  about  Michan  and  his  lost  angeleens  is  corkyshows  do 
morvaloos,  blueygreen  eyes  a  bit  scummy  developing  a  series  of 

443 


angry  boils  with  certain  references  to  the  Deity,  seeking  relief 
in  alcohol  and  so  on,  general  omnibus  character  with  a  dash  of 
railwaybrain,  stale  cough  and  an  occasional  twinge  of  claudication, 
having  his  favourite  fecundclass  family  of  upwards  of  a  decade, 
both  barefoot  and  loadenbrogued,  to  boot  and  buy  off,  Imean. 

So  let  it  be  a  knuckle  or  an  elbow,  I  hereby  admonish  you! 
It  may  all  be  topping  fun  but  it's  tip  and  run  and  touch  and  flow 
for  every  whack  when  Marie  stopes  Phil  fluther's  game  to  go. 
Arms  arome,  side  aside,  face  into  the  wall.  To  the  tumble  of  the 
toss  tot  the  trouble  of  the  swaddled,  O.  And  lest  there  be  no 
misconception.  Miss  Forstowelsy,  over  who  to  fasten  the  plight- 
forlifer  on  (threehundred  and  thirty  three  to  one  on  Rue  the 
Day!)  when  the  nice  litde  smellar  squalls  in  his  crydle  what  the 
dirty  old  bigger*ll  be  squealing  through  his  coughin  you  better 
keep  in  the  gunbarrel  straight  around  vokseburst  as  I  recommence 
you  to  (you  gypseyeyed  baggage,  do  you  hear  what  Tm  praying.'^) 
or,  Gash,  without  butthering  my  head  to  assortail  whose  stroke 
forced  or  which  struck  backly,  Pll  be  all  over  you  myselx  hori- 
zontally, as  the  straphanger  said,  for  knocking  me  with  my  name 
and  yourself  and  your  babybag  down  at  such  a  greet  sacrifice  with 
a  rap  of  the  gavel  to  a  third  price  cowhandler  as  cheap  as  the  nig- 
gerd's  dirt  (for  sale !)  or  Fll  smack  your  fruitflavoured  jujube  lips 
well  for  you,  so  I  will  well  for  you,  if  you  don't  keep  a  civil  tongue 
in  your  pigeonhouse.  The  pleasures  of  love  lasts  but  a  fleeting  but 
the  pledges  of  life  outlusts  a  lieftime.  I'll  have  it  in  for  you.  Til 
teach  you  bed  minners,  tip  for  tap,  to  be  playing  your  oddaugghter 
tangotricks  with  micky  dazzlers  if  I  find  corsehairs  on  your 
river-frock  and  the  squirmside  of  your  burberry  lupitally  covered 
with  chiflchafl*  and  shavings.  Up  Rosemiry  Lean  and  Potanasty 
Rod  you  wos,  wos  you.'^  I  overstand  you,  you  understand.  Ask- 
ing Annybettyelsas  to  carry  your  parcels  and  you  dreaming  of 
net  glory.  You'll  ging  naemaer  wi'Wolf  the  Ganger.  Cutting 
chapel,  were  you?  and  had  dates  with  slickers  in  particular 
hotels,  had  we?  Lonely  went  to  play  your  mother,  isod?  You  was 
wiflriends?  Hay,  dot's  a  doll  yarn!  Mark  mean  then!  I'll  homeseek 
you,  Luperca  as  sure  as  there's  a  palatine  in  Limerick  and  in 

444 


f 


4 

'  i 
1 

.  1 
I  i 


I 


striped  conference  here's  how.  Nerbu  de  Bios !  If  you  twos  goes 
to  walk  upon  the  railway,  Gard,  and  I'll  goad  to  beat  behind  the 
bush!  See  to  it!  Snip!  It's  up  to  you.  I'll  be  hatsnatching  harrier 

to  hiding  huries  hinder  hedge.  Snap !  I'll  tear  up  your  limpshades 
and  lock  all  your  trotters  in  the  closet,  I  will,  and  cut  your  silk- 
skin  into  garters.  You'll  give  up  your  ask  unbrodhel  ways  when 
I  make  you  reely  smart.  So  skelp  your  budd  and  kiss  the  hurt! 
ril  have  plenary  sadisfaction,  plays  the  bishop,  for  your  partial's 
indulgences  if  your  my  rodeo  gell.  Fair  man  and  foul  suggestion. 
There's  a  lot  of  lecit  pleasure  coming  bangslanging  your  way. 
Miss  Pinpernelly  satin.  For  your  own  good,  you  understand,  for 
the  man  who  lifts  his  pud  to  a  woman  is  saving  the  way  for 
kindness.  You'll  rebmemer  your  mottob  Aveh  Tiger  Roma 
mikely  smarter  the  nickst  time.  For  I'll  just  draw  my  prancer 
and  give  you  one  splitpuck  in  the  crupper,  you  understand,  that 
will  bring  the  poppy  blush  of  shame  to  your  peony  hindmost  till 
you  yelp  papapardon  and  radden  your  rhodatantarums  to  the 
beat  of  calorrubordolor,  I  am,  I  do  and  I  suffer,  (do  you  hear  me 
now,  lickspoon,  and  stop  looking  at  your  bussycat  bow  in  the 
slate.'^)  that  you  won't  obliterate  for  the  bulkier  part  of  a  running 
year,  failing  to  give  a  good  account  of  yourself,  if  you  think  I'm 
so  tan  cupid  as  all  that.  Lights  out  now  (bouf !),  tight  and  sleep 
on  it.  And  that's  how  I'll  bottle  your  greedypuss  beautibus  for 
ye,  me  bullin  heifer,  for  'tis  I  that  have  the  peer  of  arrams  that 
carry  a  wallop.  Between  them. 

Unbeknownst  to  you  would  ire  turn  o'er  see,  a  nuncio  would 
I  return  here.  How  (from  the  sublime  to  the  ridiculous)  times 
out  of  oft,  my  future,  shall  we  think  with  deepest  of  love  and 
recollection  by  rintrospection  of  thee  but  me  far  away  on  the 
pillow,  breathing  foundly  o'er  my  names  all  through  the  empties, 
whilst  moidhered  by  the  rattle  of  the  doppeldoorknockers.  Our 
homerole  poet  to  Ostelinda,  Fred  Wetherly,  puts  it  some  whys 
better.  You're  sitting  on  me  style,  maybe,  whereoft  I  helped 
your  ore.  Littlegame  rumilie  from  Liffalidebankum,  (Toobli- 
queme!)  but  a  big  corner  fill  you  do  in  this  unadulterated  seat  of 
our  affections.  Aerwenger's  my  breed  so  may  we  uncreepingly 

445 


multipede  like  the  sands  on  Amberhann !  Sevenheavens,  O  heaven! 
ly  waount  yiou!  yore  ways  to  melittleme  were  wonderful  so 
Ickam  purseproud  in  sending  uym  loveliest  pansiful  thoughts 
touching  me  dash  in-you  through  wee  dots  Hyphen,  the  so 
pretty  arched  godkin  of  beddingnights.  If  Fve  proved  to  your 
sallysfashion  how  Fm  a  man  of  Armor  let  me  so,  let  me  sue,  let 
me  see  your  isabellis.  How  I  shall,  should  I  survive,  as,  please  the 
uniter  of  U.M.I.  hearts,  I  am  living  in  hopes  to  do,  replacing 
mig  wandering  handsup  in  yawers  so  yeager  for  mitch,  positively 
cover  the  two  pure  chicks  of  your  comely  plumpchake  with 
zuccherikissings,  hong,  kong,  and  so  gong,  that  Fd  scare  the  bats 
out  of  the  ivfry  one  of  those  puggy  mornings,  honestly,  by  my 
rantandog  and  daddyoak  I  will,  become  come  coming  when, 
upon  the  mingling  of  our  meeting  waters,  wish  to  wisher,  like 
massive  mountains  to  part  no  more,  you  will  there  and  then,  in 
those  happy  moments  of  ouryour  soft  accord,  rainkiss  on  me 
back,  for  full  marks  with  shouldered  arms,  and  in  that  united 
LR.U.  stade,  when  I  come  (touf!  touf!)  wildflier*s  fox  into  my 
own  greengeese  again,  swap  sweetened  smugs,  six  of  one  for  half 
a  dozen  of  the  other,  till  they'll  bet  we're  the  cuckoo  derby 
when  cherries  next  come  back  to  Ealing  as  come  they  must,  as 
they  musted  in  their  past,  as  they  must  for  my  pressing  season, 
as  hereinafter  must  they  chirrywill  immediately  suant  on  my 
safe  return  to  ignorance  and  bliss  in  my  horseless  Coppal  Poor, 
through  suirland  and  noreland,  kings  country  and  queens,  with 
my  ropes  of  pearls  for  gamey  girls  the  way  ye'll  hardly.  Knowme. 

Slim  ye,  come  slum  with  me  and  rally  rats'  roundup!  'Tis 
post  purification  we  will,  sales  of  work  and  social  service, 
missus,  completing  our  Abelite  union  by  the  adoptation  of 
fosterlings.  Embark  for  Euphonia!  Up  Murphy,  Henson  and 
O'Dwyer,  the  Warchester  Warders!  Fll  put  in  a  shirt  time 
if  you'll  get  through  your  shift  and  between  us  in  our  shared 
slaves,  brace  to  brassiere  and  shouter  to  shunter,  we'll  pull  off  our 
working  programme.  Come  into  the  garden  guild  and  be  free 
of  the  gape  athome!  We'll  circumcivicise  all  Dublin  country. 
Let  us,  the  real  Us,  all  ignite  in  our  prepurgatory  grade  as  apos- 

446 


t 


cals  and  be  instrumental  to  utensilise,  help  our  Jakeline  sisters 
clean  out  the  hogshole  and  generally  ginger  things  up.  Meliorism 
in  massquan titles,  raffling  receipts  and  sharing  sweepstakes  till 
navel,  spokes  and  felloes  hum  like  hymn.  Burn  only  what's  Irish, 
accepting  their  coals.  You  will  soothe  the  cokeblack  bile  that's 
Anglia's  and  touch  Armourican*s  iron  core.  Write  me  your 
essayes,  my  vocational  scholars,  but  corsorily,  dipping  your 
nose  in  it,  for  Henrietta's  sake,  on  mortinatality  in  the  life  of 
jewries  and  the  sludge  of  King  Haarington's  at  its  height,  running 
boulevards  over  the  whole  of  it.  I'd  write  it  all  by  mownself  if 
I  only  had  here  of  my  jolly  young  watermen.  Bear  in  mind,  by 
Michael,  all  the  provincial's  bananas  peels  and  elacock  eggs  mak- 
ing drawadust  jubilee  along  Henry,  Moore,  Earl  and  Talbot 
Streets.  Luke  at  all  the  memmer  manning  he's  dung  for  the  pray 
of  birds,  our  priest-mayor-king-merchant,  strewing  the  Castle- 
knock  Road  and  drawing  manure  upon  it  till  the  first  glimpse  of 
Wales  and  from  Ballses  Breach  Harshoe  up  to  Dumping's  Corner 
with  the  Mirist  fathers'  brothers  eleven  versus  White  Friars  out 
on  a  rogation  stag  party.  Compare  them  caponchin  trowlers 
with  the  Bridge  of  Belches  in  Fairview,  noreast  Dublin's  favourite 
souwest  wateringplatz  and  ump  as  you  lump  it.  What  do  you 
mean  by  Jno  Citizen  and  how  do  you  think  of  Jas  Pagan 
Compost  liffe  in  Dufblin  by  Pierce  Egan  with  the  baugh  in 
Baughkley  of  Fino  Ralli.  Explain  why  there  is  such  a  number 
of  orders  of  religion  in  Asea!  Why  such  an  order  number  in 
preference  to  any  other  number.^  Why  any  number  in  any  order 
at  all.'^  Now.'^  Where  is  the  greenest  island  off  the  black  coats 
of  Spaign.^  Overset  into  universal:  I  am  perdrix  and  upon  my 
pet  ridge.  Oralmus!  Way,  O  way  for  the  autointaxication  of 
our  town  of  the  Fords  in  a  huddle!  Hailfellow  some  wellmet 
boneshaker  or,  to  ascertain  the  facts  for  herself,  run  up  your 
showeryweather  once  and  trust  and  take  the  Drumgondola  tram 
and,  wearing  the  midlimb  and  vestee  endorsed  by  the  hierarchy 
fitted  with  ecclastics,  bending  your  steps,  pick  a  trail  and  stand 
on,  say,  Aston's,  I  advise  you  strongly,  along  quaith  a  copy  of 
the  Seeds  and  Weeds  Act  when  you  have  procured  one  for  your- 

447 


self  and  take  a  good  longing  gaze  into  any  nearby  shopswindow 
you  may  select  at  suppose,  let  us  say,  the  hoyth  of  number 
eleven,  Kane  or  Keogh's,  and  in  the  course  of  about  thirtytwo 
minutes*  time  proceed  to  turn  aroundabout  on  your  heehills  to- 
wards the  previous  causeway  and  I  shall  be  very  cruelly  mis- 
taken indeed  if  you  will  not  be  jushed  astunshed  to  see  how  you 
will  be  meanwhile  durn  weel  topcoated  with  kakes  of  slush 
occasioned  by  the  mush  jam  of  the  cross  and  blackwalls  traffic 
in  transit.  See  Capels  and  then  fly.  Show  me  that  complaint  book 
here.  Where's  Cowtends  Kateclean,  the  woman  with  the  muckrake.'* 
When  will  the  W.D.  face  of  our  sow  muckloved  d'lin,  the  Troia 
of  towns  and  Carmen  of  cities,  crawling  with  mendiants  in  per- 
forated clothing,  get  its  wellbelavered  white  like  Tpool  and 
m'chester.^  When's  that  grandnational  goldcapped  dupsydurby 
houspill  coming  with  its  vomitives  for  our  mothers-in-load  and 
stretchers  for  their  devitalised  males.'*  I  am  all  of  me  for  freedom 
of  speed  but  who'll  disasperaguss  Pope's  Avegnue  or  who'll 
uproose  the  Opian  Way.'*  Who'll  brighton  Brayhowth  and  bait 
the  Bull  Bailey  and  never  despair  of  Lorcansby.'*  The  rampant 
