2  Mannequins'  Pose. 

^  Their  holy  presumption  and  hers  sinfly  desprit. 
*  Anama  anamaba  anamabapa. 

^  Only  for  he's  fathering  law  I  could  skewer  that  old  one  and  slosh  her  out 
many's  the  time  but  I  thinks  more  of  my  pottles  and  ketts. 

^  All  abunk  for  Tarararat!  Look  slipper,  soppyhat,  we've  a  doss  in  the 
manger. 

267 


Telltale  me  all 
of  annaryllies. 


Will  you  carry 
my  can  and 
fight  the  fairies^ 


Allma  Mathers^ 
Auctioneer. 


Old  Gavelkind 
the  Gamper  and 
hes  as  daff  as 
you  re  erse. 


if  have  faded  from  the  fleur,^  their  arms 
enlocked,  (ringrang,  the  chimes  of  sex  appeal- 
ing as  conchitas  with  sentas  stray ,2  rung !),  all 
thinking  all  of  it,  the  It  with  an  itch  in  it,  the  All 
every  inch  of  it,  the  pleasure  each  will  preen  her 
for,  the  business  each  was  bred  to  breed  by.^ 

Soon  jemmijohns  will  cudgel  about  some 
a  rhythmatick  or  other  over  Browne  and 
Nolan's  divisional  tables  whereas  she,  of 
minions'  novence  charily  being  cupid,  for 
mug's  wumping,  grooser's  grubbiness,  andt's 
avarice  and  grossopper's  grandegaffe,  with  her 
tootpettypout  of  jemenfichue  will  sit  and  knit 
on  solfa  sofa.^  Stew  of  the  evening,  booksyful 
stew.  And  a  bodikin  a  boss  in  the  Thimble 
Theatre.  But  all  is  her  inbourne.  Intend.  From 
gramma's  grammar  she  has  it  that  if  there  is  a 
third  person,  mascarine,  phelinine  or  nuder, 
being  spoken  abad  it  moods  prosodes  from  a 
person  speaking  to  her  second  which  is  the 
direct  object  that  has  been  spoken  to,  with  and 
at.  Take  the  dative  with  his  oblative^  for,  even 
if  obsolete,  it  is  always  of  interest,  so  spake 
gramma  on  the  impetus  of  her  imperative,  only 
mind  your  genderous  towards  his  reflexives 
such  that  I  was  to  your  grappa  (Bott's  trousend, 
hore  a  man  uffi)  when  him  was  me  hedon® 
and  mine,  what  the  lewdy  saying,  his  analec- 
tual  pygmyhop.'  There  is  comfortism  in  the 


EARLY 
NOTIONS  OF 
ACQUIRED 
RIGHTS  AND 
THE  INFLU- 
ENCE OF 
COLLECTIVE 
TRADITION 
UPON  THE 
INDIVIDUAL. 


^  One  must  sell  it  to  some  one,  the  sacred  name  of  love. 

2  Making  it  up  as  we  goes  along. 

3  The  law  of  the  jungerl. 

*  Let  me  blush  to  think  of  all  those  halfwayhoist  pullovers. 
^  I'd  like  his  pink's  cheek. 

"  P>ech  devil  in  red  hairing!   So  that's  why  you  ran  away  to  sea,  Mrs 
Lappy.  Leap  mc,  Locklaun,  for  you  have  sensed ! 
'  A  washable  lovable  floatable  doll. 


268 


I 


knowledge  that  often  hate  on  first  hearing 
comes  of  love  by  second  sight.  Have  your 
little  sintalks  in  the  dunk  of  sub  junctions,  dual 
in  duel  and  prude  with  pruriel,  but  even  the 
aoriest  chaparound  whatever  plaudered  perfect 
anent  prettydotes  and  haec  genua  omnia  may 
perhaps  chance  to  be  about  to  be  in  the  case  to 
be  becoming  a  pale  peterwright  in  spite  of  all 
your  tense  accusatives  whilstly  you're  wall- 
floored^  like  your  gerandiums  for  the  better 
half  of  a  yearn  or  sob.  It's  a  wild's  kitten,  my 
dear,  who  can  tell  a  wilkling  from  a  warthog. 
For  you  may  be  as  practical  as  is  predicable 
but  you  must  have  the  proper  sort  of  accident 
to  meet  that  kind  of  a  being  with  a  difference.^ 
Flame  at  his  fumbles  but  freeze  on  his  fist.^ 
Every  letter  is  a  godsend,  ardent  Ares,  brusque 
Boreas  and  glib  Ganymede  like  zealous  Zeus, 
the  O'Meghisthest  of  all.  To  me  or  not  to  me. 
Satis  thy  quest  on.  Werbungsap !  Jeg  suis,  vos 
JJndante  wore  a  gentleman,  thou  arr,  I  am  a  quean.  Is 

mnoroso,  a  game  over?  The  game  goes  on.  Cookcook! 

|.M.  50-50.  Search  me.  The  beggar  the  maid  the  bigger 

>vK€XaPov  the  mauler.  And  the  greater  the  patrarc  the 

griefer  the  pinch.  And  that's  what  your  doctor 
knows.  O  love  it  is  the  commonknounest  thing 
how  it  pashes  the  plutous  and  the  paupe.* 
Pop  I  And  egg  she  active  or  spoon  she  passive, 
all  them  fine  clauses  in  Lindley's  and  Murrey's 
never  braught  the  participle  of  a  present  to  a 
desponent  hortatrixy,  vindicatively  I  say  it. 


^  With  her  poodle  feinting  to  be  let  off  and  feeling  dead  in  herself.  Is  love 
worse  living? 

-  If  she  can't  follow  suit  Renee  goes  to  the  pack. 

^  Improper  frictions  is  maledictions  and  mens  uration  makes  me  mad. 
*  Llong  and  Shortts  Primer  of  Black  and  White  Wenchcraft. 


269 


ril  go  for  that 
small  polly  if 
you  II  suck  to 
your  lebbens- 
quatsch. 


O'MaraFarrelL 
Verse  hwindibus. 


Ulstriay 


from  her  postconditional  future.^  Lumpsome 
is  who  lumpsum  pays.  Quantity  counts  though 
accents  faker.  Yoking  apart  and  oblique  ora- 
tions parsed  to  one  side,  a  brat,  alanna,  can 
choose  from  so  many,  be  he  a  sollicitor's 
appendix,  a  pipe  clerk  or  free  functionist 
flyswatter,  that  perfect  little  cad,  from  the 
languors  and  weakness  of  limberlimbed  lassi- 
hood  till  the  head,  back  and  heartaches  of 
waxedup  womanage  and  heaps  on  heaps  of 
other  things  too.  Note  the  Respectable  Irish 
Distressed  Ladies  and  the  Merry  Mustard 
Frothblowers  of  Humphreystown  Associa- 
tions. Atac  first,  queckqueck  quicks  after. 
Beware  how  in  that  hist  subtaile  of  schlangder^ 
lies  liaison  to  tease  oreilles !  To  vert  embowed 
set  proper  penchant.  But  learn  from  that  ancient 
tongue  to  be  middle  old  modern  to  the  minute. 
A  spitter  that  can  be  depended  on.  Though 
Wonderlawn's  lost  us  for  ever.  Alis,  alas,  she  ! 
broke  the  glass!  Liddell  lokker  through  the 
leafery,  ours  is  mistery  of  pain.^  You  may  spin  j 
on  youthlit^s  bike  and  multiplease  your  Mike 
and  Nike  with  your  kickshoes  on  the  algebrars 
but,  volve  the  virgil  page  and  view,  the  O  of 
woman  is  long  when  burly  those  two  muters 
sequent  her  so  from  Nebob*  see  you  never 
stray  who'll  nimm  you  nice  and  nehm  the  day. 

One  hath  just  been  areading,  hath  not  one, 
ya,  ya,  in  their  memoiries  of  Hireling's  puny 
wars,  end  so,  und  all,  ga,  ga,  of  The  O'Brien, 


CONCOMI- 
TANCE OF 
COURAGE, 


^  The  gaggles  all  out. 

2  He's  just  bug  nuts  on  white  mate  he  hasn't  tlie  teath  nor  the  grits  to  choo 
and  that's  what's  wrong  with  Lang  Wang  Wurm,  old  worbbling  goesbelly. 

^  Dear  and  I  trust  in  all  frivolity  I  may  be  pardoned  for  trespassing  but  I 
think  I  may  add  hell. 

He  is  my  all  menkind  of  every  desception. 


270 


i 
I 

L 


Monastir, 
Leninstar  and 
Connecticut. 

Cliopatria,  thy 
hosies  history. 


The  Eroico 
Furioso  makes 
he  valet  like 
miling. 


I 


^he  hyper  ape  the 
hink  he  groves  the 
2oleyou  see  nowfor 
-ush  sake^  chaw  ley/ 


The  O'Connor,  The  Mac  Loughlin  and  The 
Mac  Namara  with  summed  their  appondage, 
da,  da,  of  Sire  Jeallyous  Seizer,  that  gamely 
torskmester,^  with  his  duo  of  druidesses  in  ready 
money  rompers^  and  the  tryonforit  of  Oxthie- 
vious,  Lapidous  and  Malthouse  Anthemy.  You 
may  fail  to  see  the  lie  of  that  layout,  Suetonia,^ 
but  the  reflections  which  recur  to  me  are  that 
so  long  as  beauty  life  is  body  love^  and  so  bright 
as  Mutua  of  your  mirror  holds  her  candle  to 
your  caudle,  lone  lefthand  likeless,  sombring 
Autum  of  your  Spring,  reck  you  not  one  spirt 
of  anyseed  whether  trigemelimen  cuddle  his 
coddle  or  nope.  She'll  confess  it  by  her  figure 
and  she'll  deny  it  to  your  face.  If  you're  not 
ruined  by  that  one  she  won't  do  you  any 
whim.  And  then.^  What  afters  it.'^  Gruff  Gunne 
may  blow,  Gam  Gonna  flow,  the  gossans  eye 
the  jennings  aye.  From  the  butts  of  Heber  and 
Heremon,  nolens  volens^  brood  our  pansies, 
brune  in  brume.  There's  a  split  in  the  infinitive 
from  to  have  to  have  been  to  will  be.  As  they 
warred  in  their  big  innings  ease  now  we  never 
shall  know.  Eat  early  earthapples.  Coax  Cobra 
to  chatters.  Hail,  Heva,  we  hear!  This  is  the 
glider  that  gladdened  the  girl^  that  list  to  the 
wind  that  lifted  the  leaves  that  folded  the 
fruit  that  hung  on  the  tree  that  grew  in  the 
garden  Gough  gave.  Wide  hiss,  we're  wizen- 


COUNSEL 
AND  CON- 
STANCY. 
ORDINATION 
OF  OMEN, 
ONUS  AND 
OBIT.  DIS- 
TRIBUTION 
OF  DANGER, 
DUTY  AND 
DESTINY. 
POLAR  PRIN- 
CIPLES. 


^  All  his  teeths  back  to  the  front,  then  the  moon  and  then  the  moon  with 
a  hole  behind  it. 

^  Skip  one,  flop  fore,  jennies  in  the  cabbage  store. 
^  None  of  your  cumpohlstery  English  here! 

*  Understudy  my  understandings,  Sostituda,  and  meek  thine  compline- 
ment,  gymnufleshed. 

^  Tho'  I  have  one  just  like  that  to  home,  deadleaf  brown  with  quicksilver 
appliques,  would  whollymost  applissiate  a  nice  shiny  sleekysilk  out  of  that 
slippering  snake  charmeuse. 

271 


Pige  pas. 


Seidliti  powther 
for  slogan 
plumpers. 


Hoploits  and 
atthems. 


ing.  Hoots  fromm,  we're  globing.  Why  hidest 
thou  hinder  thy  husband  his  name?  Leda,  Lada,  | 
aflutter-afraida,  so  does  your  girdle  grow! 
Willed  without  witting,  whorled  without 
aimed.  Pappapassos,  Mammamanet,  warwhets- 
wut  and  whowitswhy.^  But  it's  tails  for 
toughs  and  titties  for  totties  and  come 
buckets  come  bats  till  deeleet.^ 

Dark  ages  clasp  the  daisy  roots,  Stop,  if  you 
are  a  sally  of  the  allies,  hot  off  Minnowaurs 
and  naval  actiums,  picked  engagements  and 
banks  of  rowers.  Please  stop  if  you're  a 
B.C.  minding  missy,  please  do.  But  should 
you  prefer  A.D.  stepplease.  And  if  you  miss 
with  a  venture  it  serves  you  girly  well  glad. 
But,  holy  Janus,  I  was  forgetting  the  Blitzen- 
kopfs!  Here,  Hengegst  and  Horsesauce,  take 
your  heads^  out  of  that  taletub!  And  leave 
your  hinnyhennyhindyou !  It's  haunted.  The 
chamber.  Of  errings.  Whoan,  tug,  trace, 
stirrup!  It  is  distinctly  understouttered  that, 
sense  you  threehandshighs  put  your  twofoot- 
large  timepates  in  that  dead  wash  of  Lough 
Murph  and  until  such  time  pace  one  and  the 
same  Messherrn  the  grinning  statesmen.  Brock 
and  Leon,  have  shunted  the  grumbling 
coundedtouts,  Starlin  and  Ser  Artur  Ghinis. 
Foamous  homely  brew,  bebattled  by  bottle, 
gageure  de  guegerre.*  Bull  igien  bear  and 
then  bearagain  bulligan.  Gringrin  gringrin. 
Staffs  varsus  herds  and  bucks  vursus  barks. 


PANOPTICAL 
PURVIEW  OF 
POLITICAL 
PROGRESS 
AND  THE 
FUTURE  PRE- 
SENTATION 
OF  THE  PAST. 


'  What's  that,  ma'am?  says  I. 

2  As  you  say  yourself. 

^  That's  the  lethemuse  but  it  washes  off. 

*  Where  he  fought  the  shessock  of  his  stimmstammer  and  we  caught  the 
pepettes  of  our  lovelives. 


272 


m 


Curragh 
machree,  me 
bosthoon  fiend, 

Femilies  hug 
hank! 


'  All  we  suffered 
under  them  Cow- 
dung  Forks  and 
how  we  enjoyed 
over  our  pick  of 
the  hasketfild. 
Old  Kirns 
Meat  Meal 


Fliefliefor  the 
jillies  and  a 
bombambum 
for  the 

nappotondus. 


\ 


By  old  Grumbledum's  walls.  Bumps,  bellows 
and  bawls.^  Opprimor's  down,  up  up  Opima! 
Rents  and  rates  and  tithes  and  taxes,  wages, 
saves  and  spends.  Heil,  heptarched  span  of 
peace  1^  Live,  league  of  lex,  nex  and  the  mores! 
Fas  est  dass  and  foe  err  you.  Impovernment 
of  the  booble  by  the  bauble  for  the  bubble.  So 
wrap  up  your  worries  in  your  woe  (wumpum- 
tum!)  and  shake  down  the  shuffle  for  the 
throw.  For  there's  one  mere  ope^  for  down- 
fall ned.  As  Hanah  Levy,  shrewd  shroplifter, 
and  nievre  anore  skidoos  with  her  spoileds.* 
To  add  gay  touches.  For  hugh  and  guy  and 
goy  and  jew.  To  dimpled  and  pimpled  and 
simpled  and  wimpled.  A  peak  in  a  poke  and  a 
pig  in  a  pew.^  She  wins  them  by  wons,  a  haul 
hectoendecate,  forjmangay  mumbo  jumbjubes 
tak  mutts  and  jeffs  muchas  bracelonettes 
gracies  barcelonas.^  O  what  a  loovely  free- 
speech  'twas  (tep)'  to  gar  howalively  hinter- 
grunting!  Tip.  Like  lilt  of  larks  to  burdened 
crocodile,^  or  skittering  laubhing  at  that 
wheeze  of  old  windbag,  Blusterboss,  blow- 
harding  about  all  he  didn't  do.  Hell  o'  your 
troop!  With  is  the  winker  for  the  muckwits 
of  willesly  and  nith  is  the  nod  for  the  umproar 
napollyon  and  hitheris  poorblond  piebold 
hoerse.  Huirse.  With  its  tricuspidal  hauberk- 


^  Shake  eternity  and  lick  creation. 
^  I'm  blest  if  I  can  see. 

^  Hoppity  Huhneye,  hoosh  the  hen.  I  like  cluckers,  you  like  nuts  (wink). 
*  Sweet,  medium  and  dry  like  altar  wine. 
^  Who'll  buy  me  penny  babies? 

®  Well,  Maggy,  I  got  your  castoff  devils  all  right  and  fits  lovely.  And  am 
vaguely  graceful.  Maggy  dianks. 
'  My  six  is  no  secret,  sir,  she  said. 

®  Yes,  there,  Tad,  thanks,  give,  from,  tathair,  look  at  that  now. 


273 


Murdoch. 


Pas  ci*action, 
peu  de  sauce. 


From  the  seven 
tents  of  Joseph 
till  the  calends  oj 
Mary  Marian, 
olivehunkered 
and  thorny  too. 


As  Shakefork 
might  pitch  it. 


helm  coverchaf  emblem  on.  For  the  man  that 
broke  the  ranks  on  Monte  Sin j  on.  The  all- 
riddle  of  it?  That  that  is  allruddy  with  us, 
ahead  of  schedule,  which  already  is  plan  accom- 
plished from  and  syne:  Daft  Dathy  of  the  Five 
Positions  (the  death  ray  stop  him!)  is  still,  as 
reproaches  Paulus,  on  the  Madderhorn  and, 
entre  chats  and  hobnobs,^  daring  Dunderhead 
to  shiver  his  timbers  and  Hannibal  mac  Hamil- 
tan  the  Hegerite^  (more  livepower  elbow  him !) 
ministerbuilding  up,  as  repreaches  Timothy, 
in  Saint  Barmabrac's.^  Number  Thirty  two 
West  Eleventh  streak  looks  on  to  that  (may 
all  in  the  tocoming  of  the  sempereternal  speel 
spry  with  it!)  datetree  doloriferous  which 
more  and  over  leafeth  earlier  than  every 
growth  and,  elfshot,  headawag,  with  frayed 
nerves  wondering  till  they  feeled  sore  like  any 
woman  that  has  been  born  at  all  events  to  the 
purdah  and  for  the  howmanyeth  and  how- 
movingth  time  at  what  the  demons  in  that 
jackhouse  that  jerry  built  for  Massa  and  Missus 
and  hijo  de  puta,  the  sparksown  fermament  of 
the  starryk  fieldgosongingon  where  blows 
a  nemone  at  each  blink  of  windstilH  they 
were  sliding  along  and  sleeting  aloof  and 
scouting  around  and  shooting  about.  All- 
whichwhile  or  whereaballoons  for  good 
vaunty  years  Dagobert  is  in  Clane's  clean 
hometown  prepping  up  his  prepueratory 
and  learning  how  to  put  a  broad  face  bronzily 
out  through  a  broken  breached  meataerial 


'  Go  up  quick,  stay  so  long,  come  down  slow! 

2  If  I  gnows  me  gneesgnobs  the  both  of  him  is  gnatives  of  Genuas. 

^  A  glass  of  peel  and  pip  for  Mr  Potter  of  Texas,  please. 

^  All  the  world  loves  a  big  gleaming  jelly. 


274 


it 


l0 


m 


,1 
h 


I  smell  a  cat. 


\Two  makes  a 
wing  at  the  ma- 
croscope 
telluspeep. 


From  the  Buffalo 
Times  of  bysone 
days. 


yuick  quake 
uokes  the  par- 
otbook  of  dates. 


from  Bryan  Awlining!  Erin's  hircohaired 
culoteer.^ 

And  as,  these  things  being  so  or  ere  those 
things  having  done,  way  back  home  in  Pacata 
Auburnia,2  (untillably  holy  gammel  Eire)  one 
world  burrowing  on  another,  (if  youVe  got 
me,  neighbour,  in  any  large  lumps,  geek?,  and 
got  the  strong  of  it)  Standfest,  our  topiocal 
sagon  hero,  or  any  otther  macotther,  signs  is 
on  the  bellyguds  bastille  back,  bucked  up  with 
fullness,  and  silvering  to  her  jubilee,^  birch- 
leaves  her  jointure,  our  lavy  in  waving,  visage 
full  of  flesh  and  fat  as  a  hen's  i'  forehead, 
Airyanna  and  Blowyhart  topsirturvy,  that 
royal  pair  in  their  palace  of  quicken  boughs 
hight  The  Goat  and  Compasses  ('phone 
number  17:69,  if  you  want  to  know^)  his  sea- 
arm  strongsround  her,  her  velivole  eyne  aship- 
wracked,  have  discusst  their  things  of  the 
past,  crime  and  fable  with  shame,  home  and 
profit,^  why  lui  lied  to  lei  and  hun  tried  to  kill 
ham,  scribbledehobbles,  in  whose  veins  runs 
a  mixture  of,  are  head  bent  and  hard  upon. 
Spell  me  the  chimes.  They  are  tales  all  tolled.* 
Today  is  well  thine  but  where's  may  tomorrow 
be.  But,  bless  his  cowly  head  and  press  his 
crankly  hat,  what  a  world's  woe  is  each's 


FROM  CENG- 
GENETIC  DI- 
CHOTOMY 
THROUGH 
DIAGONISTIC 
CONCILI- 
ANCE  TO 
DYNASTIC 
CONTINU- 
ITY. 


^  A  pengeneepy  for  your  warcheekeepy. 

2  My  globe  goes  gaddy  at  geography  giggle  pending  which  time  I  was 
looking  for  my  shoe  all  through  Arabia. 

^  It  must  be  some  bugbear  in  the  gender  especially  when  old  which  they 
all  soon  get  to  look. 

*  After  me  looking  up  the  plan  in  Humphrey's  Justice  of  the  Piece  it  said  to 
