neeser?  Gaij  beutel  of  staub?  To  feel,  you?  Yes,  how  it  trembles, 
the  timid!  Vortigern,  ah  Gortigern!  Overlord  of  Mercia!  Or 
doth  brainskin  flinchgreef?  Stemming!  What  boyazhness!  Sole 
shadow  shows.  Tis  jest  jibberweek's  joke.  It  must  have  stole.  O, 
keve  silence,  both!  Putshameyu!  I  have  heard  her  voice  some- 
where else's  before  me  in  these  ears  still  that  now  are  for  mine. 

Let  op.  Slew  musies.  Thunner  in  the  eire. 

You  were  dreamend,  dear.  The  pawdrag?  The  fawthrig? 
Shoe!  Hear  are  no  phanthares  in  the  room  at  all,  avikkeen.  No 
bad  bold  faathern,  dear  one.  Opop  opop  capallo,  muy  malinchily 
malchick!  Gothgorod  father  godown  followay  tomollow  the 
lucky  load  to  Lublin  for  make  his  thoroughbass  grossman's  big- 
ness. Take  that  two  piece  big  slap  slap  bold  honty  bottomsside 
pap  pap  pappa. 

—  Li  ne  dormis? 

—  S!  Malhone  dormas. 

—  Kia  li  krias  nikte? 

—  Parolas  infanetes.  SI 

Sonly  all  in  your  imagination,  dim.  Poor  little  brittle  magic 
nation,  dim  of  mind!  Shoe  to  me  now,  dear!  Shoom  of  me!  While 
elvery  stream  winds  seling  on  for  to  keep  this  barrel  of  bounty 
rolling  and  the  nightmail  afarfrom  morning  nears. 

When  you're  coaching  through  Lucalised,  on  the  sulphur  spa 
to  visit,  it's  safer  to  hit  than  miss  it,  stop  at  his  inn!  The  hammers 
are  telling  the  cobbles,  the  pickts  are  hacking  the  saxums,  it's 
snugger  to  burrow  abed  than  ballet  on  broadway.  Tuck  in  your 

565 


blank!  For  it*s  race  pound  race  the  hosties  rear  all  roads  to  ruin 
and  layers  by  lifetimes  laid  down  riches  from  poormen.  Cried 
unions  to  chip,  saltpetre  to  strew,  gallpitch  to  drink,  stonebread 
to  break  but  it's  bully  to  gulp  good  blueberry  pudding.  Doze 
in  your  warmth !  While  the  elves  in  the  moonbeams,  feeling  why, 
will  keep  my  lilygem  gently  gleaming. 

In  the  sleepingchambers.  The  court  to  go  into  half  morning. 
The  four  seneschals  with  their  palfrey  to  be  there  now,  all 
balaaming  in  their  sellaboutes  and  sharping  up  their  penisills.  The 
boufeither  Soakersoon  at  holdup  tent  sticker.  The  swabsister 
Katya  to  have  duntalking  and  to  keep  shakenin  dowan  her  drogh- 
edars.  Those  twelve  chief  barons  to  stand  by  duedesmally  with 
their  folded  arums  and  put  down  all  excursions  and  false  alarums 
and  after  that  to  go  back  now  to  their  runameat  farums  and  re- 
compile their  magnum  chartarums  with  the  width  of  the  road 
between  them  and  all  harrums.  The  maidbrides  all,  in  favours 
gay,  to  strew  sleety  cinders  on  their  falling  hair  and  for  wouldbe 
joybells  to  ring  sadly  ringless  hands.  The  dame  dowager  to  stay 
kneeled  how  she  is,  as  first  mutherer  with  cord  in  coil.  The  two 
princes  of  the  tower  royal,  daulphin  and  deevlin,  to  lie  how  they 
are  without  to  see.  The  dame  dowager's  duffgerent  to  present 
wappon,  blade  drawn  to  the  full  and  about  wheel  without  to  be 
seen  of  them.  The  infant  Isabella  from  her  coign  to  do  obeisance 
toward  the  duffgerent,  as  first  futherer  with  drawn  brand.  Then 
the  court  to  come  in  to  full  morning.  Herein  see  ye  fail  not! 

— Vidu^  porkegof  Hi  vi  rigardas.  Returnu^  porkegol  Maldeli- 
katof 

Gauze  off  heaven!  Vision.  Then,  O,  pluxty  suddly,  the  sight 
entrancing!  Hummels!  That  crag!  Those  bullocks!  O  Sire!  So  be 
accident  occur  is  not  going  to  commence !  What  have  you  there- 
fore? Fear  you  the  donkers?  Of  roovers?  I  fear  lest  we  have  lost 
ours  (non  grant  it!)  respecting  these  wildy  parts.  How  is  hit  finis- 
ter!  How  shagsome  all  and  beastful!  What  do  you  show  on?  I 
show  because  I  must  see  before  my  misfortune  so  a  stark  pointing 
pole.  Lord  of  ladders,  what  for  lungitube!  Can  you  read  the  verst 
legend  hereon?  I  am  bather  of  the  missed.  Areed!  To  the  dun- 

566 


I 


leary  obelisk  via  the  rock  vhat  myles  knox  furlongs;  to  the 
general's  postoffice  howsands  of  patience;  to  the  Wellington 
memorial  half  a  league  wrongwards;  to  Sara's  bridge  good  hun- 
ter and  nine  to  meet  her:  to  the  point,  one  yeoman's  yard.  He,  he, 
he!  At  that  do  you  leer,  a  setting  up?  With  a  such  unfettered  belly? 
Two  cascades?  I  leer  (O  my  big,  O  my  bog,  O  my  bigbagbone!) 
because  I  must  see  a  buntingcap  of  so  a  pinky  on  the  point.  It  is 
for  a  true  glover's  greetings  and  many  burgesses  by  us,  greats 
and  grosses,  uses  to  pink  it  in  this  way  at  tet-at-tet.  For  long  has 
it  been  effigy  of  standard  royal  when  broken  on  roofstaff  which 
to  the  gunnings  shall  cast  welcome  from  Courtmilits'  Fortress, 
umptydum  dumptydum.  Bemark  you  these  hangovers,  those 
streamer  fields,  his  influx.  Do  you  not  have  heard  that,  the  queen 
lying  abroad  from  fury  of  the  gales,  (meekname  mocktitles  her 
Nan  Nan  Nanetta)  her  liege  of  lateenth  dignisties  shall  come  on 
their  bay  tomorrow,  Michalsmas,  mellems  the  third  and  fourth  of 
the  clock,  there  to  all  the  king's  aussies  and  all  their  king's  men, 
knechts  tramplers  and  cavalcaders,  led  of  herald  graycloak,  Ulaf 
Goldarskield?  Dog!  Dog!  Her  lofts  will  be  loosed  for  her  and 
their  tumblers  broodcast.  A  progress  shall  be  made  in  walk,  ney?  I 
trow  it  well,  and  uge  by  uge.  He  shall  come,  sidesmen  accostant,  by 
aryan  jubilarian  and  on  brigadier-general  Nolan  or  and  buccaneer- 
admiral  Browne,  with  —  who  can  doubt  it?  —  his  golden  beagles 
and  his  white  elkox  terriers  for  a  hunting  on  our  littlego  illcome 
faxes.  In  blue  and  buff  of  Beaufort  the  hunt  shall  make.  It  is 
poblesse  noblige.  Ommes  will  grin  through  collars  when  each 
riders  other's  ass.  Me  Eccls!  What  cats'  killings  overall!  What 
popping  out  of  guillotened  widows!  Quick  time!  Beware  of 
waiting!  Squintina  plies  favours  on  us  from  her  rushfrail  and 
Zosimus,  the  crowder,  in  his  surcoat,  sues  us  with  souftwister. 
Apart  we!  Here  are  gantlets.  I  believe,  by  Plentifolks  Mixymost! 
Yet  if  I  durst  to  express  the  hope  how  I  might  be  able  to  be  pre- 
sent. All  these  peeplers  entrammed  and  detrained  on  bikeygels 
and  troykakyls  and  those  puny  farting  little  solitires!  ToUacre, 
tollacre!  Polo  north  will  beseem  Sibernian  and  Plein  Pelouta  will 
behowl  ne  yerking  at  lawncastrum  ne  ghimbelling  on  guelflinks. 

567 


Mauser  Misma  shall  cease  to  stretch  her  and  come  abroad  for  what 
the  blinkins  is  to  be  seen.  A  ruber,  a  rancher,  a  fullvide,  a  veri- 
dust  and  as  crerdulous  behind  as  he  was  before  behind  a  damson 
of  a  sloe  cooch.  Mbv!  The  annamation  of  evabusies,  the  livlia- 
ness  of  her  laughings,  such  as  a  plurity  of  bells !  Have  peacience, 
pray  you!  Place  to  dames!  Even  the  Lady  Victoria  Landauner 
will  leave  to  loll  and  parasol,  all  giddied  into  gushgasps  with  her 
dickey  standing.  Britus  and  Gothius  shall  no  more  joustle  for 
that  sonneplace  but  mark  one  autonement  when,  with  si  so  silent, 
Cloudia  Aiduolcis,  good  and  dewed  up,  shall  let  fall,  yes,  no,  yet, 
now,  a  rain.  Muchsias  grapcias!  It  is  how  sweet  from  her,  the 
wispful,  and  they  are  soon  seen  swopsib  so  a  sautril  as  a  meise. 
Its  ist  not  the  tear  on  this  movent  sped.  Tix  sixponce!  Poum! 
Hool  poll  the  bull?  Fool  pay  the  bill.  Becups  a  can  full.  Peal,  pull 
the  bell !  Still  sayeme  of  ceremonies,  much  much  more !  So  please- 
your!  It  stands  in  Instopressible  how  Meynhir  Mayour,  our 
boorgomaister,  thon  staunch  Thorsman,  (our  Nancy's  fancy,  our 
own  Nanny's  Big  Billy),  his  hod  hoisted,  in  best  bib  and  tucker, 
with  Woolington  bottes  over  buckram  babbishkis  and  his  clouded 
cane  and  necknoose  aureal,  surrounded  of  his  full  cooperation 
with  fixed  baronets  and  meng  our  pueblos,  restrained  by  chain  of 
hands  from  pinchgut,  hoghill,  darklane,  gibbetmeade  and  beaux 
and  laddes  and  bumbellye,  shall  receive  Dom  King  at  broadstone 
barrow  meet  a  keys  of  goodmorrow  on  to  his  pompey  cushion. 
Me  amble  dooty  to  your  grace's  majers!  Arise,  sir  Pompkey 
Dompkey!  Ear!  Ear!  Weakear!  An  allness  eversides!  We  but 
miss  that  horse  elder  yet  cherchant  of  the  wise  graveleek  in 
cabbuchin  garden.  That  his  be  foison,  old  Caubeenhauben ! 
'Twill  be  tropic  of  all  days.  By  the  splendour  of  Sole!  Perfect 
weatherest  prevailing.  Thisafter,  swift's  mightmace  deposing,  he 
shall  aidress  to  His  Serenemost  by  a  speechreading  from  his 
miniated  vellum,  alfi  byrni  gamman  dealter  etcera  zezera  eacla 
treacla  youghta  kaptor  lomdom  noo,  who  meaningwhile  that 
illuminatured  one,  Papyroy  of  Pepinregn,my  Sire,  great,  big  King, 
(his  scaffold  is  there  set  up,  as  to  edify,  by  Rex  Ingram,  pageant- 
master)  will  be  poking  out  with  his  canule  into  the  arras  of 

568 


r 


what  brilliant  bridgecloths  and  joking  up  with  his  tonguespitz 
to  the  crimosing  balkonladies,  here's  a  help  undo  their  modest 
stays  with  a  fullbelow  may  the  funnyfeelbelong.  Oddsbones, 
that  may  it!  Carilloners  will  ring  their  gluckspeels.  Rng  rng! 
Rng  rng!  S.  Presbutt-in-the-North,  S.  Mark  Underloop, 
S.  Lorenz-by-the-Toolechest,  S.  Nicholas  Myre.  You  shall 
hark  to  anune  S.  Gardener,  S.  George-le-Greek,  S.  Barclay 
Moitered,  S.  Phibb,  lona-in-the-Fields  with  Paull-the-Aposteln. 
And  audialterand:  S.  Jude-at-Gate,  Bruno  Friars,  S.  Weslen- 
on-the-Row,  S.  Molyneux  Without,  S.  Mary  Stillamaries  with 
Bride-and-Audeons-behind-Wardborg.  How  chimant  in  effect! 
Alia  tingaling  pealabells!  So  a  many  of  churches  one  cannot 
pray  own's  prayers.  'Tis  holyyear's  day!  Juin  jully  we  may! 
Agithetta  and  Tranquilla  shall  demure  umclaused  but  Marl- 
borough-the-Less,  Greatchrist  and  Holy  Protector  shall  have 
open  virgilances.  Beata  Basilica!  But  will  be  not  pontifi- 
cation?  Dock,  dock,  agame!  Primatially.  At  wateredge.  Can- 
taberra  and  Neweryork  may  supprecate  when,  by  vepers,  for 
towned  and  travailed,  his  goldwhite  swaystick  aloft  ylifted, 
umbrilla-parasoul,  Monsigneur  of  Deublan  shall  impart  to  all. 
Benedictus  henedicat!  To  board!  And  mealsight!  Unjoin t  him 
this  bittern,  frust  me  this  chicken,  display  yon  crane,  thigh  her 
her  pigeon,  unlace  allay  rabbit  and  pheasant!  Sing:  Old  Finncoole, 
he's  a  mellow  old  saoul  when  he  swills  with  his  fuddlers  free! 
Poppop  array!  For  we're  all  jollygame  fellhellows  which  no- 
bottle  can  deny!  Here  be  trouts  culponed  for  ye  and  salmons 
chined  and  sturgeons  tranched,  sanced  capons,  lobsters  barbed. 
Call  halton  eatwords!  Mumm  me  moe  mummers!  What,  no 
Ithalians.'^  How,  not  one  Moll  Pamelas.^  Accordingly!  Play  actors 
by  us  ever  have  crash  to  their  gate.  Mr  Messop  and  Mr  Borry  will 
produce  of  themselves,  as  they're  two  genitalmen  of  Veruno, 
Senior  Nowno  and  Senior  Brolano  (finaly!  finaly!),  all  for  love  of 
a  fair  penitent  that,  a  she  be  broughton,  rhoda's  a  rosy  she.  Their 
two  big  skins!  How  they  strave  to  gat  her!  Such  a  boyplay!  Their 
bouchicaulture !  What  tyronte  power!  Buy  our  fays!  My  name  is 
novel  and  on  the  Granby  in  hills.  Bravose!  Thou  traitor  slave! 

09 


J, 


Mine  name's  Apnorval  and  o'er  the  Grandbeyond  Mountains. 
Bravossimost!  The  royal  nusick  their  show  shall  shut  with  song- 
slide  to  nature's  solemn  silence.  Deep  Dalchi  Dolando!  Might 
gentle  harp  addurge !  It  will  give  piketurns  on  the  tummlipplads 
and  forain  dances  and  crosshurdles  and  dollmanovers  and  viceuv- 
ious  pyrolyphics,  a  snow  of  dawnflakes,  at  darkfall  for  Grace's 
Mamnesty  and  our  fancy  ladies,  all  assombred.  Some  wholetime  in 
hot  town  tonight!  You  do  not  have  heard.'^  It  stays  in  book 
of  that  which  is.  I  have  heard  anyone  tell  it  jesterday  (master 
currier  with  brassard  was't)  how  one  should  come  on  morrow 
here  but  it  is  never  here  that  one  today.  Well  but  remind  to  think, 
you  where  yestoday  Ys  Morganas  war  and  that  it  is  always  to- 
morrow in  toth's  tother's  place.  Amen. 

True!  True!  Vouchsafe  me  more  soundpicture !  It  gives  furi- 
ously to  think.  Is  rich  Mr  Pornter,  a  squire,  not  always  in  his  such 
strong  health.'^  I  thank  you  for  the  best,  he  is  in  taken  deal  ex- 
ceedingly herculeneous.  One  sees  how  he  is  lot  stoutlier  than  of 
formerly.  One  would  say  him  to  hold  whole  a  litteringture  of 
kidlings  under  his  aproham.  Has  handsome  Sir  Pournter  always 
been  so  long  married.'^  O  yes,  Lord  Pournterfamilias  has  been 
marryingman  ever  since  so  long  time  in  Hurtleforth,  where  he 
appeers  as  our  oily  the  active,  and,  yes  indeed,  he  has  his  mic  son 
and  his  two  fine  mac  sons  and  a  superfine  mick  want  they  mack 
metween  them.  She,  she,  she!  But  on  what  do  you  again  leer.'^  I  am 
not  leering,  I  pink  you  pardons.  I  am  highly  sheshe  sherious. 

Do  you  not  must  want  to  go  somewhere  on  the  present.'* 
Yes,  O  pity!  At  earliest  moment!  That  prickly  heat  feeling!  For- 
think  not  me  spill  it's  at  always  so  guey.  Here  we  shall  do  a 
far  walk  (O  pity)  anygo  khaibits  till  the  number  one  of  sairey's 
place.  Is,  is.  I  want  you  to  admire  her  sceneries  illustrationing 
our  national  first  rout,  one  ought  ought  one.  We  shall  too 
downlook  on  that  ford  where  Sylvanus  Sanctus  washed  but 
hurdley  those  tips  of  his  anointeds.  Do  not  show  ever  retrorsehim, 
crookodeyled,  till  that  you  become  quite  crimstone  in  the  face! 
Beware!  guardafew!  It  is  Stealer  of  the  Heart!  I  am  anxious  in 
regard  you  should  everthrown  your  sillarsalt.  I  will  dui  sui,  tef- 

570 


nute!  These  brilling  waveleaplights !  Please  say  me  how  sing  you 
them.  Seekhem  seckhem!  They  arise  from  a  clear  springwell  in 
the  near  of  our  park  which  makes  the  daft  to  hear  all  blend.  This 
place  of  endearment!  How  it  is  clear!  And  how  they  cast  their 
spells  upon,  the  fronds  that  thereup  float,  the  bookstaff  branch- 
ings! The  druggeted  stems,  the  leaves  incut  on  trees!  Do  you 
can  their  tantrist  spellings?  I  can  lese,  skillmistress  aiding.  Elm, 
bay,  this  way,  cull  dare,  take  a  message,  tawny  runes  ilex  sallow, 
meet  me  at  the  pine.  Yes,  they  shall  have  brought  us  to  the  water 
trysting,  by  hedjes  of  maiden  ferm,  then  here  in  another  place  is 
their  chapelofeases,  sold  for  song,  of  which  you  have  thought 
my  praise  too  much  my  price.  O  ma  ma!  Yes,  sad  one  of  Ziod.'^ 
Sell  me,  my  soul  dear!  Ah,  my  sorrowful,  his  cloister  dreeping 
of  his  monkshood,  how  it  is  triste  to  death,  all  his  dark  ivytod! 
Where  cold  in  dearth.  Yet  see,  my  blanching  kissabelle,  in  the 
under  close  she  is  allso  gay,  her  kirtles  green,  her  curtsies  white, 
her  peony  pears,  her  nistlingsloes !  I,  pipette,  I  must  also  quick- 
lingly  to  tryst  myself  softly  into  this  littleeasechapel.  I  would 
rather  than  Ireland!  But  I  pray,  make!  Do  your  easiness!  O, 
peace,  this  is  heaven !  O,  Mr  Prince  of  Pouringtoher,  whatever 
shall  I  pppease  to  do.'^  Why  do  you  so  lifesighs,  my  precious,  as 
I  hear  from  you,  with  limmenings  lemantitions,  after  that  swollen 
one.'^  I  am  not  sighing,  I  assure,  but  only  I  am  soso  sorry  about 
all  in  my  saarasplace.  Listen,  listen!  I  am  doing  it.  Hear  more  to 
those  voices!  Always  I  am  hearing  them.  Horsehem  coughs 
enough.  Annshee  lispes  privily. 

—  He  is  quieter  now. 

—  Legalentitled.  Accesstopartnuzz.  Notwildebeestsch.  By- 
rightofoaptz.  Twainbeonerflsh.  Haveandholdpp. 

—  S !  Let  us  go.  Make  a  noise.  Slee  .  .  . 

—  Qui .  .  .  The  gir  .  .  . 

—  Huesofrichunfoldingmorn.  Wakenupriseandprove.  Pro- 
videforsacrifice. 

—  Wait!  Hist!  Let  us  list! 

For  our  netherworld's  bosomfoes  are  working  tooth  and  nail 
overtime:  in  earthveins,  toadcavites,  chessganglions,  saltkles- 

571 


ters,  underfed:  nagging  firenibblers  knockling  aterman  up  out  of 
his  hinterclutch.  Tomb  be  their  tools!  When  the  youngdammers 
will  be  soon  heartpocking  on  their  betters'  doomoggers:  and  the 
youngfries  will  be  backfrisking  diamondcuts  over  their  lyingin 
underlayers,  spick  and  spat  trowelling  a  gravetrench  for  their 
fourinhand  forebears.  Vote  for  your  club ! 

—  Wait! 

—  What! 

—  Her  door! 

—  Ope? 

—  See! 

—  What? 

—  Careful. 

—  Who? 

Live  well!  Iniivdluaritzas !  Tone! 

Cant  ear!  Her  dorters  ofe?  Whofe?  Her  eskmeno  daughters 
hope?  Whope?  Ellme,  elmme,  elskmestoon!  Soon! 
Let  us  consider. 

The  procurator  Interrogarius  Mealterum  presends  us  this  pro- 
poser. 

Honuphrius  is  a  concupiscent  exservicemajor  who  makes  dis- 
honest propositions  to  all.  He  is  considered  to  have  committed, 
invoking  droit  d'oreiller^  simple  infidelities  with  Felicia,  a  virgin, 
and  to  be  practising  for  unnatural  coits  with  Eugenius  and  Jere- 
mias,  two  or  three  philadelphians.  Honophrius,  Felicia,  Eugenius 
and  Jeremias  are  consanguineous  to  the  lowest  degree.  Anita 
the  wife  of  Honophrius,  has  been  told  by  her  tirewoman,  For- 
tissa,  that  Honuphrius  has  blasphemously  confessed  under  volun- 
tary chastisement  that  he  has  instructed  his  slave,  Mauritius,  to 
urge  Magravius,  a  commercial,  emulous  of  Honuphrius,  to  solicit 
the  chastity  of  Anita.  Anita  is  informed  by  some  illegitimate 
children  of  Fortissa  with  Mauritius  (the  supposition  is  Ware's) 
that  Gillia,  the  schismatical  wife  of  Magravius,  is  visited  clandes- 
tinely by  Barnabas,  the  advocate  of  Honuphrius,  an  immoral 
person  who  has  been  corrupted  by  Jeremias.  Gillia,  (a  cooler 
blend,  D'Alton  insists)  ex  equo  with  Poppea,  Arancita,  Clara, 

572 


I 


Marinuzza,  Indra  and  lodina,  has  been  tenderly  debauched 
(in  Halliday's  view),  by  Honuphrius,  and  Magravius  knows 
from  spies  that  Anita  has  formerly  committed  double  sacrilege 
with  Michael,  vulgo  Cerularius,  a  perpetual  curate,  who  wishes 
to  seduce  Eugenius.  Magravius  threatens  to  have  Anita  molested 
by  Sulla,  an  orthodox  savage  (and  leader  of  a  band  of  twelve 
mercenaries,  the  Sullivani),  who  desires  to  procure  Felicia  for 
Gregorius,  Leo,  Vitellius  and  Macdugalius,  four  excavators,  if 
she  will  not  yield  to  him  and  also  deceive  Honuphrius  by  ren- 
dering conjugal  duty  when  demanded.  Anita  who  claims  to  have 
discovered  incestuous  temptations  from  Jeremias  and  Eugenius 
would  yield  to  the  lewdness  of  Honuphrius  to  appease  the 
savagery  of  Sulla  and  the  mercernariness  of  the  twelve  Sullivani, 
and  (as  Gilbert  at  first  suggested),  to  save  the  virginity  of 
Felicia  for  Magravius  when  converted  by  Michael  after  the 
death  of  Gillia,  but  she  fears  that,  by  allowing  his  marital  rights 
she  may  cause  reprehensible  conduct  between  Eugenius  and 
Jeremias.  Michael,  who  has  formerly  debauched  Anita,  dispen- 
ses her  from  yielding  to  Honuphrius  who  pretends  publicly  to 
possess  his  conjunct  in  thirtynine  several  manners  {turpiter! 
affirm  ex  cathedris  Gerontes  Cambronses)  for  carnal  hygiene 
whenever  he  has  rendered  himself  impotent  to  consummate  by 
subdolence.  Anita  is  disturbed  but  Michael  comminates  that 
he  will  reserve  her  case  tomorrow  for  the  ordinary  Guglielmus 
even  if  she  should  practise  a  pious  fraud  during  afFrication 
which,  from  experience,  she  knows  (according  to  Wadding), 
to  be  leading  to  nullity.  Fortissa,  however,  is  encouraged  by 
Gregorius,  Leo,  Viteilius,  and  Magdugalius,  reunitedly,  to  warn 
Anita  by  describing  the  strong  chastisements  of  Honuphrius 
and  the  depravities  {turpissimasl)  of  Canicula,  the  deceased  wife 
of  Mauritius,  with  Sulla,  the  simoniac,  who  is  abnegand  and 
repents.  Has  he  hegemony  and  shall  she  submit.'^ 

Translate  a  lax,  you  breed  a  bradaun.  In  the  goods  of  Cape  and 
Chattertone,  deceased. 

This,  lay  readers  and  gentilemen,  is  perhaps  the  commonest 
of  all  cases  arising  out  of  umbrella  history  in  connection  with 

573 


the  wood  industries  in  our  courts  of  litigation.  D'Oyly  Owens 
holds  (though  Finn  Magnusson  of  himself  holds  also)  that  so 
long  as  there  is  a  joint  deposit  account  in  the  two  names  a 
mutual  obligation  is  posited.  Owens  cites  Brerfuchs  and  Warren, 
a  foreign  firm,  since  disseized,  registered  as  Tangos,  Limited, 
for  the  sale  of  certain  proprietary  articles.  The  action  which  was 
at  the  instance  of  the  trustee  of  the  heathen  church  emergency 
fund,  suing  by  its  trustee,  a  resigned  civil  servant,  for  the  pay- 
ment of  tithes  due  was  heard  by  Judge  Doyle  and  also  by  a  com- 
mon jury.  No  question  arose  as  to  the  debt  for  which  vouchers 
spoke  volumes.  The  defence  alleged  that  payment  had  been  made 
effective.  The  fund  trustee,  one  Jucundus  Fecundus  Xero  Pecun- 
dus  Coppercheap,  counterclaimed  that  payment  was  invalid 
having  been  tendered  to  creditor  under  cover  of  a  crossed  cheque, 
signed  in  the  ordinary  course,  in  the  name  of  Wieldhelm,  Hurls 
Cross,  voucher  copy  provided,  and  drawn  by  the  senior  partner 
only  by  whom  the  lodgment  of  the  species  had  been  effected  but 
in  their  joint  names.  The  bank  particularised,  the  national  misery 
(now  almost  entirely  in  the  hands  of  the  four  chief  bondholders 
for  value  in  Tangos),  declined  to  pay  the  draft,  though  there 
were  ample  reserves  to  meet  the  liability,  whereupon  the  trusty 
Coppercheap  negociated  it  for  and  on  behalf  of  the  fund  of  the 
thing  to  a  client  of  his,  a  notary,  from  whom,  on  consideration,  he 
received  in  exchange  legal  relief  as  between  trusthee  and  bethrust, 
with  thanks.  Since  then  the  cheque,  a  good  washable  pink,  em- 
bossed D  you  D  No  1 1  hundred  and  thirty  2,  good  for  the  figure 
and  face,  had  been  circulating  in  the  country  for  over  thirtynine 
years  among  holders  of  Pango  stock,  a  rival  concern,  though  not 
one  demonetised  farthing  had  ever  spun  or  fluctuated  across  the 
counter  in  the  semblance  of  hard  coin  or  liquid  cash.  The  jury  (a 
sour  dozen  of  stout  fellows  all  of  whom  were  curiously  named 
after  doyles)  naturally  disagreed  jointly  and  severally,  and  the 
belligerent  judge,  disagreeing  with  the  allied  jurors'  disagree- 
ment, went  outside  his  jurisfiction  altogether  and  ordered  a  gar- 
nishee attachment  to  the  neutral  firm.  No  mandamus  could  lo- 
cate the  depleted  whilom  Breyfawkes  as  he  had  entered  into  an 

574 


I 


r 


I 


ancient  moratorium,  dating  back  to  the  times  of  the  early  barters, 
and  only  the  junior  partner  Barren  could  be  found,  who  entered  an 
appearance  and  turned  up,  upon  a  notice  of  motion  and  after  service 
of  the  motion  by  interlocutory  injunction,  among  the  male  jurors 
to  be  an  absolete  turfwoman,  originally  from  the  proletarian  class, 
with  still  a  good  title  to  her  sexname  of  Ann  Doyle,  2  Coppinger's 
Cottages,  the  Doyle's  country.  Doyle  (Ann),  add  woman  in, 
having  regretfully  left  the  juryboxers,  protested  cheerfully  on  the 
stand  in  a  long  jurymiad  in  re  corset  checks,  delivered  in  doy- 
lish,  that  she  had  often,  in  supply  to  brusk  demands  rising  almost 
to  bollion  point,  discounted  Mr  Brakeforth's  first  of  all  in  ex- 
change at  nine  months  from  date  without  issue  and,  to  be  strictly 
literal,  unbottled  in  corrubberation  a  current  account  of  how 
she  had  been  made  at  sight  for  services  rendered  the  payee- 
drawee  of  unwashable  blank  assignations,  sometimes  pinkwilliams 
(laughter)  but  more  often  of  the  creme-de-citroriy  vair  email  paon- 
coque  or  marshmallow  series,  which  she,  as  bearer,  used  to  en- 
dorse, adhesively,  to  her  various  payers-drawers  who  in  most  cases 
were  identified  by  the  timber  papers  as  wellknown  tetigists  of  the 
city  and  suburban.  The  witness,  at  her  own  request,  asked  if  she 
might  and  wrought  something  between  the  sheets  of  music  paper 
which  she  had  accompanied  herself  with  for  the  occasion  and 
this  having  been  handed  up  for  the  bench  to  look  at  in  camera^ 
Coppinger's  doll,  as  she  was  called,  (anniasy  Mack  Erse's  Dar, 
the  adopted  child)  then  proposed  to  jerrykin  and  jureens  and  every 
jim,  jock  and  jarry  in  that  little  green  courtinghousie  for  her  satis- 
faction and  as  a  whole  act  of  settlement  to  reamalgamate  herself, 
tomorrow  perforce,  in  pardonership  with  the  permanent  suing  fond 
trustee,  Monsignore  Pepigi,  under  the  new  style  of  Will  Break- 
fast and  Sparrem,  as,  when  all  his  cognisances  had  been  estreated, 
he  seemed  to  proffer  the  steadiest  interest  towards  her,  but  this 
prepoposal  was  ruled  out  on  appeal  by  Judge  JeremyDoyler,  who, 
reserving  judgment  in  a  matter  of  courts  and  reversing  the  find- 
ings of  the  lower  correctional,  found,  beyond  doubt  of  treuson, 
fending  the  dissassents  of  the  pickpackpanel,  twelve  as  upright 
judaces  as  ever  let  down  their  thoms,  and,  occupante  extremum 

575 


scabie^  handed  down  to  the  jury  of  the  Liffey  that,  as  a  matter  of 
tact,  the  woman  they  gave  as  free  was  born  into  contractual  in- 
capacity (the  Calif  of  Man  v  the  Eaudelusk  Company)  when,  how 
and  where  mamy's  mancipium  act  did  not  apply  and  therefore  held 
supremely  that,  as  no  property  in  law  can  exist  in  a  corpse, 
(Hal  Kilbride  v  Una  Bellina)  Pepigi's  pact  was  pure  piffle  (loud 
laughter)  and  Wharrem  would  whistle  for  the  rhino.  Will  you, 
won't  you,  pango  with  Pepigi?  Not  for  Nancy,  how  dare  you  do! 
And  whew  whewwhew  whew. 

—  He  sighed  in  sleep. 

—  Let  us  go  back. 

—  Lest  he  forewaken. 

—  Hide  ourselves. 

While  hovering  dreamwings,  folding  around,  will  hide  from 
fears  my  wee  mee  mannikin,  keep  my  big  wig  long  strong  mano- 
men,  guard  my  bairn,  mon  beau, 

—  To  bed. 

Prospector  projector  and  boomooster  giant  builder  of  all 
causeways  woesoever,  hopping  offpoint  and  true  terminus  of 
straxstraightcuts  and  corkscrewn  perambulaups,  zeal  whence  to 
goal  whither,  wonderlust,  in  sequence  to  which  every  muckle 
must  make  its  mickle,  as  different  as  York  from  Leeds,  being  the 
only  wise  in  a  muck's  world  to  look  on  itself  from  beforehand; 
mirrorminded  curiositease  and  would-to-the-large  which  bring 
hills  to  molehunter,  home  through  first  husband,  perils  behind 
swine  and  horsepower  down  to  hungerford,  prick  this  man  and 
tittup  this  woman,  our  forced  payrents.  Bogy  Bobow  with  his 
cunnyngnest  couchmare.  Big  Maester  Finnykin  with  Phenicia 
Parkes,  lame  of  his  ear  and  gape  of  her  leg,  most  correctingly, 
we  beseach  of  you,  down  their  laddercase  of  nightwatch  service 
and  bring  them  at  suntime  fiush  with  the  nethermost  gangrung 
of  their  stepchildren,  guide  them  through  the  labyrinth  of  their 
samilikes  and  the  alteregoases  of  their  pseudoselves,  hedge  them 
bothways  from  all  roamers  whose  names  are  ligious,  from  loss 
of  bearings  deliver  them;  so  they  keep  to  their  rights  and  be 
ware  of  duty  frees,  neoliffic  smith  and  magdalenian  jinnyjones, 

576 


I 

i 


r 


I 


I 


mandragon  mor  and  weak  wifFeyducky,  Morionmale  and  Thry- 
dacianmad,  basilisk  glorious  with  his  weeniequeenie,  tigernack 
and  swansgrace,  he  as  hale  as  his  ardouries,  she  as  verve  as  her 
veines;  this  prime  white  arsenic  with  bissemate  alloyed,  martial 
sin  with  peccadilly,  free  to  lease  hold  with  first  mortgage,  dow- 
ser dour  and  dipper  douce,  stop-that-war  and  feel-this-feather, 
norsebloodheartened  and  landsmoolwashable,  great  gas  with 
fun-in-the-corner,  grand  slam  with  fall-of-the-trick,  solomn  one 
and  shebby,  cod  and  coney,  cash  and  carry,  in  all  we  dreamed 
the  part  we  dreaded,  corsair  coupled  with  his  dame,  royal  biber 
but  constant  lymph,  boniface  and  bonnyfeatures,  nazil  hose  and 
river  mouth,  bang-the-change  and  batter-the-bolster,  big  smoke 
and  lickleyroesthy,  humanity's  fahrman  by  society  leader,  voguener 
and  trulley,  bumpered  and  elf,  Urloughmoor  with  Miryburrow, 
leaks  and  awfully,  basal  curse  yet  grace  abunda.  Regies  Producer 
with  screendoll  Vedette,  peg  of  his  claim  and  pride  of  her  heart, 
clifFscaur  grisly  but  rockdove  cooing,  hodinstag  on  fryggabet, 
baron  and  feme:  that  he  may  dishcover  her,  that  she  may  uncouple 
him,  that  one  may  come  and  crumple  them,  that  they  may  soon 
recoup  themselves:  now  and  then,  time  on  time  again,  as  per 
periodicity;  from  Neaves  to  Willses,  from  Bushmills  to  Enos;  to 
Goerz  from  Harleem,  to  Hearths  of  Oak  from  Skittish  Widdas; 
via  mala,  hyber  pass,  heckhisway  per  alptrack:  through  lands- 
vague  and  vain,  after  many  mandelays:  in  their  first  case,  to  the 
next  place,  till  their  cozenkerries:  the  high  and  the  by,  both  pent 
and  plain:  cross  cowslips  yillow,  yellow,  yallow,  past  pumpkins 
pinguind,  purplesome:  be  they  whacked  to  the  wide  other  tied 
to  hustings,  long  sizzleroads  neath  arthruseat,  him  to  the  derby, 
her  to  toun,  til  sengentide  do  coddlam:  in  the  grounds  or  unter- 
linnen:  rue  to  lose  and  ca  canny:  at  shipside,  by  convent  garden: 
monk  and  sempstress,  in  sackcloth  silkily:  curious  dreamers, 
curious  dramas,  curious  deman,  plagiast  dayman,  playajest 
dearest,  plaguiest  dourest:  for  the  strangfort  planters  are  pro- 
desting,  and  the  karkery  felons  dryflooring  it  and  the  leperties' 
laddos  railing  the  way,  blump  for  slogo  slee ! 

Stop!  Did  a  stir?  No,  is  fast.  On  to  bed!  So  he  is.  It's  only  the 

577 


wind  on  the  road  outside  for  to  wake  all  shivering  shanks  from 
snorring. 

But.  Oom  Godd  his  villen,  who  will  he  be,  this  mitryman,  some 
king  of  the  yeast,  in  his  chrismy  greyed  brunzewig,  with  the  snow 
in  his  mouth  and  the  Caspian  asthma,  so  bulk  of  build?  Relics  of 
pharrer  and  livite!  Dik  Gill,  Tum  Lung  or  Macfinnan's  cool 
Harryng?  He  has  only  his  hedcosycasket  on  and  his  wollsey 
shirtplisse  with  peascod  doublet,  also  his  feet  wear  doubled  width 
socks  for  he  always  must  to  insure  warm  sleep  between  a  pair  of 
fuUyfleeced  bankers  like  a  finnoc  in  a  cauwl.  Can  thus  be  Misthra 
Norkmann  that  keeps  our  hotel?  Begor,  Mr  0*Sorgmann,  you're 
looking  right  well!  Hecklar's  champion  ethnicist.  How  deft  as  a 
