(had  he  hows  would  he  keep  her  as  niece  as  a  fiddle!)  but  in  the 
meal  tub  it  was  wohl  yeas  sputsbargain  what,  rarer  of  recent,  an 
occasional  conformity,  he,  with  Muggleton  Muckers,  alwagers 
allalong  most  certainly  allowed,  as  pilerinnager's  grace  to  peti- 
tionists  of  right,  of  the  three  blend  cupstoomerries  with  their 
customed  spirits,  the  Gill  gob,  the  Burklley  bump,  the  Wallisey 
wanderlook,  having  their  ceilidhe  gailydhe  in  his  shaunty  irish. 
Group  drinkards  maaks  grope  thinkards  or  how  reads  rotary, 
jewr  of  a  chrestend,  respecting  the  otherdogs  churchees,  so  long 
plubs  will  be  plebs  but  plabs  by  low  frequency  amplification  may  ^ 
later  agree  to  have  another.  For  the  people  of  the  shed  are  the  ,^ 
^-^e.  sure  ads  of  all  quorum.  Lorimers  and  leathersellers,  skinners  and 
salters,  pewterers  and  paperstainers,  parishclerks,  fletcherbowyers, 

312 


.1 


I 


I 


I 


i 


( 


girdlers,  mercers,  cordwainers  and  first,  and  not  last,  the  weavers. 
Our  library  he  is  hoping  to  ye  public,  f^^i^ 
Innholder,  upholder. 

—  Sets  on  sayfohrt!  Go  to  it,  agitator!  they  bassabosuned  over 
the  flowre  of  their  hoose.  Godeown  moseys  and  skeep  thy  beeble 
bee!  - 

—  I  will  do  that,  acordial,  by  mine  hand,  sazd  Kersse,  piece 
Cod,  and  in  the  flap  of  a  jacket,  ructified  after  his  nap  of  a  blankit 
their  o'cousin,  as  sober  as  the  ship's  husband  he  was  one  my  god- 
father when  he  told  me  saw  whileupon  I  am  now  well  and  jurily 
sagasfide  after  the  boonamorse  the  widower,  according  to  rider, 
following  pnomoneya,  he  is  consistently  blown  to  Adams.  So 
help  me  boyg  who  keeps  the  book ! 

Whereofter,  behest  his  suzerain  law  the  Thing  and  the  pilsener 
had  the  baar,  Recknar  Jarl,  (they  called  him  Roguenor,  Irl  call 
him)  still  passing  the  change-a-pennies,  pengeypigses,  a  several 
sort  of  coyne  in  livery,  pushed  their  whisper  in  his  hairing, 
(seemed,  a  some  shipshep's  sottovoxed  stalement,  a  dearagadye, 
to  hasvey  anyone  doing  duty  for  duff  point  of  dorkland  compors) 
the  same  to  the  good  ind  ast  velut  discharge  after  which  he  had 
exemptied  more  than  orphan  for  the  ballast  of  his  nurtural  life. 
And  threw  a  cast.  A  few  pigses  and  hare  you  are; and  no  chicking, 
tribune's  tribute,  if  you  guess  mimic  miening.  Meanly  in  his  lewd- 
brogue  take  your  tyon  coppels  token,  with  this  good  sixtric 
from  mine  runbag  of  juwels.  Nummers  that  is  summus  that  is 
toptip  that  is  bottombay  that  is  Twomeys  that  is  Digges  that  is 
Heres.  In  the  frameshape  of  hard  mettles.  For  we  all  would  fain 
make  glories.  It  is  minely  well  mint. 

Thus  as  count  the  costs  of  liquid  courage,  a  buUyon  gauger, 
stowed  stivers  pengapung  in  bulk  in  hold  (fight  great  finnence ! 
brayvoh,  little  bratton!)  keen  his  kenning,  the  queriest  of  the 
crew,  with  that  fellow  fearing  for  his  own  misshapes,  should  he  be 
himpself  namesakely  a  foully  fallen  dissentant  from  the  peripu- 
lator,  sued  towerds  Meade- Reid  and  Lynn-Duff,  rubbing  the 
hodden  son  of  a  pookal,  leaden  be  light,  lather  be  dry  and  it  be 
drownd  on  all  the  ealsth  beside,  how  the  camel  and  where  the 

313 


deiffel  or  when  the  finicking  or  why  the  funicking,  who  caused 
the  scaffolding  to  be  first  removed  you  give  orders,  Labeling, 
were  their  reidey  meade  answer  when  on  the  cutey  (the  cores- 
pondent) in  conflict  of  evidence  drew  a  kick  at  witness  but 
(missed)  and  for  whom  in  the  dyfflun*s  kiddy  removed  the 
planks  they  were  wanted,  boob.  '-^•^  t/^/ a  ch, 
Bump!  ^/  K(hf^^ 

Bothallchoractorschumminaroundgansumuminarumdrum- 
strumtruminahumptadumpwaultopoofoolooderamaunsturnup! 

—  Did  do  a  dive,  aped  one. 

—  Propellopalombarouter,  based  two. 

—  Rutsch  is  for  rutterman  ramping  his  roe,  seed  three.  Where 
the  muddies  scrimm  ball.  Bimbim  bimbim.  And  the  maidies 
scream  all.  Himhim  himhim. 

And  forthemore  let  legend  go  lore  of  it  that  mortar  scene  so 
cwympty  dwympty  what  a  dustydust  it  razed  arboriginally  but,  y 
luck's  leap  to  the  lad  at  the  top  of  the  ladder,  so  sartor's  risorted 
why  the  sinner  the  badder!  Ho  ho  ho  hoch!  La  la  la  lach!  Hillary 
rillarry  gibbous  grist  to  our  milleryl  A  pushpull,  qq:  quiescence, 
pp:  with  extravent  intervulve  coupling.  The  savest  lauf  in  the 
world.  Paradoxmutose  caring,  but  here  in  a  present  booth  of  Balla- 
clay,  Barthalamou,  where  their  dutchuncler  mynhosts  and  serves 
them  dram  well  right  for  a  boors'  interior  (homereek  van  hohm- 
ryk)  that  salve  that  selver  is  to  screen  its  auntey  and  has  ringround 
as  worldwise  eve  her  sins  (pip,  pip,  pip)  willpip  futurepip  feature 
apip  footloose  pastcast  with  spareshins  and  flash  substittles  of 
noirse-made-earsy  from  a  nephew  mind  the  narrator  but  give  the 
devil  his  so  long  as  those  sohns  of  a  blitzh  call  the  tm;in£_tuone  and 
thonder  alout  makes  the  thurd.  Let  there  be.  Due.        )  , 

—  That's  all  murtagh  purtagh  but  whad  ababs  his  dopter.^ 
sissed  they  who  were  onetime  ungkerls  themselves,  (when  the 
youthel  of  his  yorn  shook  the  bouchal  in  his  bed)  twilled  along- 
side in  wiping  the  rice  assatiated  with  their  wetting.  The  lappel 
of  his  size.^  His  ros  in  sola  velnere  and  he  sicckumed  of  homnis 
terrars.  She  wends  to  scoulas  in  her  slalpers.  There  were  no  pea- 
nats  in  her  famalgia  so  no  wumble  she  tumbled  for  his  famas 


JudL  A^r 


(^roalls  davors.  Don't  him  forget!  A  butcheler  artsed  out  of  Cullege 
Trainity.  Diddled  he  daddle  a  drop  of  the  cradler  on  delight 
mebold  laddy  was  stetched?  Knit  wear?  And  they  addled,  (or 
ere  the  cry  of  their  tongues  would  be  uptied  dead)  Shufflebotham 
asidled,  plus  his  ducks  fore  his  drills,  an  inlay  of  a  liddle  more 
lining  maught  be  licensed  all  at  ones,  be  these  same  tokens,  for- 
giving a  brass  rap,  sneither  a  whole  length  nor  a  short  shift  so 
full  as  all  were  concerned.  i 

Burniface,  shjply  efter,  shoply  after,  at  an  angle  of  lag,  let  flow, 
brabble  brabble  and  brabble,  and  so  hostily,  heavyside  breathing, 
came  up  with  them  and,  check  me  joule,  shot  the  three  tailors, 
butting  back  to  Moyle  herring,  bump  as  beam  and  buttend,  roller  i'  ^^Ta  iji^ 
and  reiter,  after  the  diluv's  own  deluge,  the  seasant  samped  as 
skibber  breezed  in,  tripping,  dripping,  threw  the  sheets  in  the 
wind,  the  tights  of  his  trunks  at  tickle  to  tackle  and  his  rubmelucky 
truss  rehorsing  the  pouffed  skirts  of  his  overhawl.  He'd  left  his 
stickup  in  his  hand  to  show  them  none  ill  feeling.  Whatthough  for 
all  appentices  it  had  a  mushroom  on  it.  While  he  faced  them 
front  to  back.  Then  paraseuls  round,  quite  taken  atack,  sclaiming, 
Howe  cools  Eavybrolly! 

—  Good  marrams,  sagd  he,  freshwatties  and  boasterdes  all,  as 
he  put  into  bierhiven,  nogeysokey  first,  cabootle  segund,  jilling 
to  windwards,  as  he  made  straks  for  that  oerasound  the  snarsty  weg 
for  Publin,  so  was  his  horenpipe  lug  in  the  lee  off  their  mouths 
organs,  with  his  tilt  too  taut  for  his  tammy  all  a  slaunter  and  his 
wigger  on  a  wagger  with  its  tag  tucked.  Up.  With  a  good  easter- 
ing  and  a  good  westering.  And  he  asked  from  him  how  the  hitch 
did  do  this  my  fand  sulkers  that  mone  met  the  Kidballacks  which 
he  suttonly  remembered  also  where  the  hatch  was  he  endnew 
strandweys  he's  that  fond  sutchenson,  a  penincular  fraimd  of 
mind,  fordeed  he  was  langseling  to  talka  holt  of  hems,  clown 
toff,  tye  hug  fliorten.  Cablen:  Clifftop.  Shelvling  tobay  oppe- 
long  tomeadow.  Ware  cobbles.  Posh. 

—  Skibbereen  has  common  inn,  by  pounautique,  with  poke- 
way  paw,  and  sadder  raven  evermore,  telled  shinshanks  lauwering 
frankish  for  his  kicker  who,  through  the  medium  of  gallic 

315 


—  Pukkelsen,  tilltold. 

That  with  some  our  prowed  invisors  how  their  ulstravoliance  led 
them  infroraids,  striking  down  and  landing  alow,  against  our 
aerian  insulation  resistance,  two  boards  that  beached  ast  one,  wid- 
ness  thane  and  tysk  and  hanry.  Prepatrickularly  all,  they  summed. 
Kish  met.  Bound  to.  And  for  landlord,  noting,  nodding,  a  coast 
to  moor  was  cause  to  mear.  Besides  proof  plenty,  over  proof. 
While  they  either  took  a  heft.  Or  the  other  swore  his  eric.  Heaved 
two,  spluiced  the  menbrace.  Heirs  at  you,  Brewinbaroon!  Weth 
a  whistle  for  methanks. 

—  Good  marrams  and  good  merrymills,  sayd  good  mothers 
gossip,  bobbing  his  bowing  both  ways  with  the  bents  and  skerries, 
when  they  were  all  in  the  old  walled  of  Kinkincaraborg  (and  that 
they  did  overlive  the  hot  air  of  Montybunkum  upon  the  coal 
blasts  of  Mitropolitos  let  there  meeds  be  the  hourihom),  hibernia- 
ting  after  seven  oak  ages,  fearsome  where  they  were  he  had  gone 
dump  in  the  doomering  this  tide  where  the  peixies  would  pickle 
him  down  to  the  button  of  his  seat  and  his  sess  old  soss  Erinly 
into  the  boelgein  with  the  help  of  Divy  and  Jorum's  locquor  and 

f'^L  shut  the  door  after  him  to  make  a  rarely  fine  Ran's  cattle  of  fish. 
Morya  Mortimor!  Allapalla  overus!  Howoft  had  the  ballshee 
tried!  And  they  laying  low  for  his  home  gang  in  that  eeriebleak 
mead,  with  fireball  feast  and  turkeys  tumult  and  paupers  patch 
to  provide  his  bum  end.  The  foe  things  your  niggerhead  needs 
to  be  fitten  for  the  Big  Water.  He  made  the  sign  of  the  ham- 
mer. God's  drought,  he  sayd,  after  a  few  daze,  thinking  of  all 
those  bliakings,  how  leif  pauses !  Here  you  are  back  on  your  haw- 
kins,  from  Blasil  the  Brast  to  our  povotogesus  portocall,  the  furt 
on  the  turn  of  the  hurdles,  slave  to  trade,  vassal  of  spices  and  a 
dragon-the-market,  and  be  turbot,  lurch  a  stripe,  as  were  you 
soused  methought  out  of  the  mackerel.  Eldsfells!  sayd  he.  A 
kumpavin  on  iceslant !  Here's  open  handlegs  for  one  old  faulker 
from  the  hame  folk  here  in  you's  booth!  So  sell  me  gundy,  sagd 
the  now  waging  cappon,  with  a  warry  posthumour's  expiation, 
shoots  ogos  shootsle  him  or  where's  that  slob.'^  A  bit  bite  of 
keesens,  he  sagd,  til  Dennis,  for  this  jantar  (and  let  the  dobblins 

316 


roast  perus,)  or  a  stinger,  he  sagd,  t.  d,,  on  a  doroughbread  ken- 
nedy's  for  Patriki  San  Saki  on  svo  fro  or  my  old  relogion's  out 
of  tiempor  and  when  I'm  soured  to  the  tipple  you  can  sink  me 
lead,  he  sagd,  and,  if  I  get  can,  sagd  he,  a  pusspull  of  tomtar- 
tarum.  Thirst  because  homing  hand  give.  Allkey  dallkey,  sayd 
the  shop's  housebound,  for  he  was  as  deep  as  the  north  star  (and 
could  tolk  sealer's  solder  into  tankar's  tolder)  as  might  have  sayd 
every  man  to  his  beast,  and  a  treat  for  the  trading  scow,  my  cater 
million  falls  to  you  and  crop  feed  a  stall !  Afram.  And  he  got  and 
gave  the  ekspedient  for  Hombreyhambrey  wilcomer  what's  the 
good  word.  He  made  the  sign  on  the  feaster.  Cloth  be  laid !  And 
a  disk  of  osturs  for  the  swanker!  Allahballah!  He  was  the  care- 
lessest  man  I  ever  see  but  he  sure  had  the  most  sand.  One  fish- 
ball  with  fixings !  For  a  dan  of  a  ven  of  a  fin  of  a  son  of  a  gun  of 
a  gombolier.  Ekspedient,  sayd  he,  sonnur  mine,  Shackleton  Sul- 
ten!  Opvarts  and  at  ham,  or  this  ogry  Osier  will  oxmaul  us  all, 
sayd  he,  like  one  familiar  to  the  house,  while  Waldemar  was 
heeling  it  and  Maldemaer  was  toeing  it,  soe  syg  he  was  walking 
from  the  bowl  at  his  food  and  the  meer  crank  he  was  waiting  for 
the  tow  of  his  turn.  Till  they  plied  him  behaste  on  the  fare.  Say 
wehrn! 

—  Nohow  did  he  kersse  or  hoot  alike  the  suit  and  solder  skins,  \ 
minded  first  breachesmaker  with  considerable  way  on  and  / 

—  Humpsea  dumpsea,  the  munchantman,  secondsnipped  cutter 
the  curter. 

— A  ninth  for  a  ninth.  Take  my  worth  from  it.  And  no  mistaenk, 
they  thricetold  the  taler  and  they  knew  the  whyed  for  too.  The 
because  of  his  sosuch.  Uglymand  fit  himshemp  but  throats  fill  us 
all!  And  three's  here's  for  repeat  of  the  unium!  Place  the  scaurs 
wore  on  your  groot  big  bailey  bill,  he  apullajibed,  the  O' Colonel 
Power,  latterly  distented  from  the  O' Conner  Dan,  so  promonitory 
himself  that  he  was  obliffious  of  the  headth  of  hosth  that  rosed 
before  him,  from  Sheeroskouro,  under  its  zembliance  of  mardal 
mansk,  like  a  dun  darting  dullemitter,  with  his  moultain  haares 
stuck  in  plostures  upon  it,  (do  you  kend  yon  peak  with  its  coast  so 
green .'^)  still  trystfully  acape  for  her  his  gragh  knew  well  in  pre- 

317 


cious  memory  and  that  proud  grace  to  her,  in  gait  a  movely  water, 
of  smile  a  coolsome  cup,  with  that  rarefied  air  of  a  Montmalency 
and  her  quick  little  breaths  and  her  climbing  colour.  Take  thee 
live  will  save  thee  wive?  I'll  think  uplon,  lilady.  Should  anerous 
enthroproise  call  homovirtue,  duinnafear!  The  ghem's  to  the 
ghoom  be  she  nere  zo  zma.  Obsit  nemon!  Floodlift,  her  ancient 
of  rights  regaining,  so  yester  yidd,  even  remembrance.  And 
greater  grown  then  in  the  trifle  of  her  days,  a  mouse,  a  mere 
tittle,  trots  off  with  the  whole  panoromacron  picture.  Her  young- 
free  yoke  stilling  his  wandercursus,  jilt  the  spin  of  a  curl  and  jolt 
the  broadth  of  a  buoy.  The  Annexandreian  captive  conquest. 
Ethna  Prettyplume,  Hooghly  Spaight.  Him  her  first  lap,  her  his 
fast  pal,  for  ditcher  for  plower,  till  deltas  twoport.  While  this 
glowworld's  lump  is  gloaming  off  and  han  in  hende  will  grow. 
Through  simpling  years  where  the  lowcasts  have  aten  of  amilikan 
honey  and  datish  fruits  and  a  bannock  of  barley  on  Tham  the 
Thatcher's  palm.  O  wanderness  be  wondernest  and  now!  Listen- 
eath  to  me,  veils  of  Mina !  He  would  withsay,  nepertheloss,  that 
is  too  me  mean.  I  oldways  did  me  walsh  and  preechup  ere  we  set 
to  sope  and  fash.  Now  eats  the  vintner  over  these  contents  oft 
with  his  sad  slow  munch  for  backonham.  Yet  never  shet  it  the 
brood  of  aurowoch,  not  for  legions  of  donours  of  Gamuels.  I 
have  performed  the  law  in  truth  for  the  lord  of  the  law,  Taif 
Alif.  I  have  held  out  my  hand  for  the  holder  of  my  heart  in  Anna- 
polis, my  youthrib  city.  Be  ye  then  my  protectors  unto  Mussa- 
botomia  before  the  guards  of  the  city.  Theirs  theres  is  a  gentle- 
meants  agreement.  Womensch  plodge.  To  slope  through  heather 
till  the  foot.  Join  Andersoon  and  Co.  If  the  flowers  of  speech 
valed  the  springs  of  me  rising  the  hiker  I  hilltapped  the  murk  I 
mist  my  blezzard  way.  Not  a  knocker  on  his  head  nor  a  nick- 
number  on  the  manyoumeant.  With  that  coldtbrundt  natteldster 
wefting  stinks  from  Alpyssinia,  wooving  nihilnulls  from  Memo- 
land  and  wolving  the  ulvertones  of  the  voice.  But  his  spectrem 
onlymergeant  crested  from  the  irised  sea  in  plight,  calvitousness, 
loss,  nngnr,  gliddinyss,  unwill  and  snorth.  It  might  have  been 
what  you  call  your  change  of  my  life  but  there's  the  chance  of  a 

318 


I 


i 


i 

I 


i 


I 


4 


night  for  my  lifting.  Hillyhollow,  valleylow!  With  the  sounds 
and  the  scents  in  the  morning.  <^o^jk4.e\ 

—  I  shot  be  shoddied,  throttle  me,  fine  me  cowheel  for  ever, 
usquebauched  the  ersewild  aleconner,  for  bringing  briars  to  Bem- 
bracken  and  ringing  rinbus  round  Demetrius  for,  as  you  wrinkle 
wryghtly,  bully  bluedomer,  it's  a  suirsite's  stircus  haunting  hes- 
teries  round  old  volcanoes.  We  gin  too  gnir  and  thus  plinary 
indulgence  makes  collemullas  of  us  all.  But  Time  is  for  talerman 
tasting  his  tap.  Tiptoptap,  Mister  Maut. 

He  made  one  summery  (Cholk  and  murble  in  lonestime)  of  his 
the  three  swallows  like  he  was  muzzling  Moselems  and  torched 
up  as  the  faery  pangeant  fluwed  down  the  hisophenguts,  a  slake 
for  the  quicklining,  to  the  tickle  of  his  tube  and  the  twobble  of 
his  fable,  O,  fibbing  once  upon  a  spray  what  a  queer  and  queasy 
spree  it  was.  Plumped. 

Which  both  did.  Prompt.  Eh,  chrystal  holder.'^  Save  Ampster- 
dampster  that  had  rheumaniscences  in  his  netherlumbs. 

—  By  the  drope  in  his  groin,  Ali  Slupa,  thinks  the  cappon, 
plumbing  his  liners,  we  were  heretofore. 

—  And  be  the  coop  of  his  gobbos,  Reacher  the  Thaurd,  thinks 
your  girth  fatter,  apopo  of  his  buckseaseilers,  but  where's  Horace's 
courtin  troopsers.^ 

—  I  put  hem  behind  the  oasthouse,  sagd  Pukkelsen,  tuning 
wound  on  the  teller,  appeased  to  the  cue,  that  double  dyode 
dealered,  and  he's  wallowing  awash  swill  of  the  Tarra  water.  And 
it  marinned  down  his  gargantast  trombsathletic  like  the  marousers  of 
the  gulpstroom.  The  kersse  of  Wolafs  on  him,  shitateyar,  he  sagd  in 
the  fornicular,  and,  at  weare  or  not  at  weare,  I'm  sigen  no  stretcher, 
for  I  carsed  his  murhersson  goat  in  trotthers  with  them  newbuckle- 
noosers  behigh  in  the  fire  behame  in  the  oasthouse.  Hops !  sagd  he. 

—  Smoke  and  coke  choke !  lauffed  till  the  tear  trickled  drown  a 
thigh  the  loafers  all  but  a  sheep's  whosepants  that  swished  to  the 
lord  he  hadn't  and  the  starer  his  story  was  tailed  to  who  felt  that, 
the  fierifornax  being  thurst  on  him  motophosically,  as  Omar 
sometime  notes,  such  a  satuation,  debauchly  to  be  watched  for, 
would  empty  dempty  him  down  to  the  ground. 

^  319 


—  And  hopy  dope !  sagd  he,  anded  the  enderer,  now  dyply 
hypnotised  or  hopeseys  doper  himself.  And  kersse  him,  sagd  he, 
after  inunder  tarrapoulling,  and  the  shines  he  cuts,  shinar,  the 
screeder,  the  stitchimesnider,  adepted  to  nosestorsioms  in  his 
budinholder,  cummanisht,  sagd  he,  (fouyoufoukou!)  which  goes 
in  the  ways  smooking  publics,  sagd  he,  bomboosting  to  be  in 

p^,^lc>^  thelitest  civille  row  faction  for  a  dubblebrasterd  navvygaiterd, 

(flick  off  that  hvide  aske,  big  head !)  sagd  he,  the  big  bag  of  my 
hamd  till  hem,  tollerloon,  sagd  he,  with  his  pudny  bun  brofkost 
when  he  waits  meet  the  bangd.  I  will  put  his  fleas  of  wood  in  the 
flour,  and  he  sagd,  behunt  on  the  oatshus,  the  not  wellmade  one, 
sagd  he,  the  kersse  of  my  armsore  appal  this  most  unmentionablest 
of  men  (mundering  eeriesk,  if  he  didn't  scalded  him  all  the 
shimps  names  in  his  gitter!)  a  coathemmed  gusset  sewer,  sagd  he, 
his  first  cudgin  is  an  innvalet  in  the  unitred  stables  which  is  not 
feed  tonights  a  kirtle  offal  fisk  and  he  is  that  woe  worstered 
wastended  shootmaker  whatever  poked  a  noodle  in  a  clouth! 
,  '  So  for  the  second  tryon  all  the  meeting  of  the  acarras  had  it. 

How  he  hised  his  bungle  oar  his  shourter  and  cut  the  pinter  off  his 
pourer  and  lay  off  for  Fellagulphia  in  the  farning.  From  his 
dhruimadhreamdhrue  back  to  Brighten-pon-the-Baltic,  from  our 
lund's  rund  turs  bag  til  threathy  hoeres  a  wuke.  Ugh! 

—  Stuff,  Taaffe,  stuff!  interjoked  it  his  wife's  hopesend  to  the 
, '  \       boath  of  them  consistently.  Copie  back  to  May  Aileen. 

—  lid  luck  to  it!  blastfumed  the  nowraging  scamptail,  in  flating 
furies  outs  trews  his  cammelskins,  the  flashlight  of  his  ire  wacker- 
ing  from  the  eye  winker  on  his  masttop.  And  aye  far  he  fared  from 
Afferik  Arena  and  yea  near  he  night  till  Blawland  Bearring, 
baken  be  the  brazen  sun,  buttered  be  the  snows.  And  the  sea 
shoaled  and  the  saw  squalled.  And,  soaking  scupper,  didn't  he 
drain  , 

A  pause.  •  ^  r,  /       ,  er-^ 

Infernal  machinery  (serial  number;  BuUysacre,  dig  care  a  dig) 
having  thus  passed  the  buck  to  billy  back  from  jack  (finder  the 
keeper)  as  the  baffling  yarn  sailed  in  circles  it  was  now  high  tide 
for  the  reminding  pair  of  snipers  to  be  suitably  punished  till  they 

320 


(iff  rJ  ^ 


/ 


had,  like  the  pervious  oelkenner  done,  liquorally  no  more  powers 
to  their  elbow.  Ignorinsers'  bliss,  therefore,  their  not  to  say  rifle 
f^fip  c<  ■  butt  target,  none  too  wisefoUy,  poor  fish,  (he  is  eating,  he  is  spun, 
is  milked,  he  dives)  upholding  a  lampthorne  of  lawstift  as  wand 
of  welcome  to  all  men  in  bonafay,  (and  the  corollas  he  so  has 
saved  gainsts  the  virus  he  has  thus  injected !)  dijcoastedself  to  that 
kipsie  point  of  its  Dublin  bar  there,  breaking  and  entering,  from  the 
outbagk's  dead  heart,  Glasthule  Bourne  or  Boehernapark  Nolagh, 
by  wattsismade  or  bianconi,  astraylians  in  island,  a  wellknown 
tall  hat  blown  in  between  houses  by  a  nightcap  of  that  silk  or  it 
might  be  a  black  velvet  and  a  kiber  galler  dragging  his  hunker, 
were  signalling  gael  warnings  towards  Wazwollenzee  Haven  to 
give  them  their  beerings,  east  circular  route  or^^gant^jcentral 
highway.  Open,  'tis  luck  will  have  it!  Lifeboat  AUoe,  Noeman's 
Woe,  Hircups  Emptybolly !  With  winkles  whelks  and  cocklesent 
f\V3^  jelks.  Let  be  buttercup  eve  lit  by  night  in  the  Phoenix!  Music. 
And  old  lotts  have  funn  at  Flarjimagen's  ball.  Till  Irinwakes  from 
Slumber  Deep.  How  they  succeeded  by  courting  daylight  in 
saving  darkness  he  who  loves  will  see. 
Business.  His  bestness.  Copeman  helpen. 
Contrescene.  /4  ^/&- 

^  He  cupped  his  yea^  to  catch  me's  to  y^  in  what's  yours  as 
minest  to  hissent,  giel  as  gail,  geil  as  gaul,  Odorozone,  now  our- 
menial  servent,  blanding  rum,  milk  and  toddy  with  I  hand  it 
to  you.  Saying  whiches,  see  his  bow  on  the  hapence,  with  a  pat- 
tedyr  but  digit  here,  he  scooped  the  hens,  hounds  and  horses 
biddy  by  bunny,  with  an  arc  of  his  covethand,  saved  from  the 
drohnings  they  might  oncounter,  untill  his  cubid  long,  to  hide  in 
dry.  Aside.  Your  sows  tin  the  topple,  dodgers,  trink  me  dregs! 
Zoot! 

And  with  the  gust  of  a  spring  alice  the  fossickers  and  swaggelers 
with  him  on  the  hoof  from  down  under  piked  forth  desert  roses  in 
that  muUigar  scrub. 

Reenter  Ashe  Junior.  Peiwei  toptip,  nankeen  pontdelounges. 
Gives  fair  day.  Cheroot.  Cheevio! 
Off. 

321 


— Take  off  thatch  whitehat  (lo,  Kersse  come  in  back  bespoking 
of  loungeon  off  the  Boildawl  stuumplecheats  for  rushirishis  Irush- 
Irish,  dangieling  his  old  Conan  over  his  top  gallant  shouldier  so 
was,  lao  yiu  shao,  he's  like  more  look  a  novicer  on  the  nevay). 

—  Tick  off  that  whilehot,  you  scum  of  a  botch,  (of  Kersse  who, 
as  he  turned  out,  alas,  hwen  ching  hwan  chang,  had  been  mocking 
his  hollaballoon  a  sample  of  the  costume  of  the  country). 

—  Tape  oaf  that  saw  fouU  and  sew  wrong,  welsher,  you  suck  of 
a  thick,  stock  and  the  udder,  and  confiteor  yourself  (for  bekersse 
he  had  cuttered  up  and  misfutthered  in  the  most  multiplest 
manner  for  that  poor  old  bridge's  masthard  slouch  a  shook  of 
cloakses  the  wise,  hou  he  pouly  hung  hoang  tseu,  his  own  fitther 
couldn't  nose  him). 

Chorus:  With  his  coate  so  graye.  And  his  pounds  that  he 
pawned  from  the  burning. 

—  And,  haikon  or  hurlin,  who  did  you  do  at  doyle  today,  my 
horsey  dorksey  gentryman.  Serge  Mee,  suit!  sazd  he,  tersey  ker- 
sey. And  when  Tersse  had  sazd  this  Kersse  stood  them  the  whole 
koursse  of  training  how  the  whole  blazy  raze  acurraghed,  from 
lambkinsback  to  sliving  board  and  from  spark  to  phoenish.  And 
he  tassed  him  tartly  and  he  sassed  him  smartly,  tig  for  tager,  strop 
for  stripe,  as  long  as  there's  a  lyasher  on  a  kyat.  And  they  peered 
him  beheld  on  the  pyre. 

And  it  was  so.  Behold. 

—  Same  capman  no  nothing  horces  two  feller  he  feller  go 
where.  Isn't  that  effect.'^  gig  for  gag,  asked  there  three  newcom- 
mers  till  knockingshop  at  the  ones  upon  a  topers  who,  while  in 
admittance  to  that  impedance,  as  three  as  they  were  there,  they  had 
been  malttreating  themselves  to  their  health's  contempt. 

—  That's  fag  for  fig,  metinkus,  confessed,  mhos  for  mhos,  those 
who,  would  it  not  be  for  that  dielectrick,  were  upon  the  point  of 
obsoletion,  and  at  the  brink  of  from  the  pillary  of  the  Nilsens  and 
from  the  statutes  of  the  Kongbullies  and  from  the  milestones  of 
Ovlergroamlius  libitate  nos,  Domnial! 

—  And  so  culp  me  goose,  he  sazd,  szed  the  ham  muncipated  of 
the  first  course,  recoursing,  all  cholers  and  coughs  with  his  beauw 

322 


I 


on  the  bummell,  tlie  bugganeering  wanderducken,  he  sazd,  (that 
his  pumps  may  ship  awhoyle  shandymound  of  the  dussard),  the 
coarsehair  highsaydighsayman,  there's  nice  tugs  he  looks,  (how 
you  was,  Ship  Alouset?)  he  sazd,  the  bloedaxe  bloodooth  baltxe- 
bec,  that  is  crupping  into  our  raw  lenguage  navel  through  the 
lumbsmall  of  his  hawsehole,  he  sazd,  donconfounder  him,  voyag- 
ing after  maidens,  belly  jonah  hunting  the  polly  joans,  and  the 
hurss  of  all  portnoysers  befaddle  him,  he  sazd,  till  I  split  in  his  flags, 
he  sazd,  one  to  one,  the  landslewder,  after  Donnerbruch  fire. 
Reefer  was  a  wenchman.  One  can  smell  off  his  wetsments  how  he 
is  coming  from  a  beach  of  promisck.  Where  is  that  old  muttiny, 
shall  I  ask?  Free  kicks  he  will  have  from  me,  turncoats,  in  Bar 
Hartley  if  I  wars  a  fewd  years  ago.  Meistr  Capteen  Gaascooker,  a 
salestrimmer!  As  he  was  soampling  me  ledder,  like  pulp,  and  as 
I  was  trailing  his  fumbelums,  like  hulp,  he'll  fell  the  fall  of  me 
faus,  he  sazd,  like  yulp!  The  goragorridgorballyed  pushkalsson, 
he  sazd,  with  his  bellows  pockets  fulled  of  potchtatos  and  his  fox 
in  a  stomach,  a  disagrees  to  his  ramskew  coddlelecherskithers' 
zirkuvs,  drop  down  dead  and  deaf,  and  there  is  never  a  teilwrmans 
in  the  feof  fife  of  Iseland  or  in  the  wholeabelongd  of  Skunkinabory 
from  Drumadunderry  till  the  rumnants  of  Mecckrass,  could  milk 
a  colt  in  thrushes  foran  furrow  follower  width  that  a  hole  in  his 
tale  and  that  hell  of  a  hull  of  a  hill  of  a  camelump  bakk.  Fadgest- 
fudgist! 

Upon  this  dry  call  of  selenium  cell  (that  horn  of  lunghalloon, 
Riland's  in  peril!)  with  its  doomed  crack  of  the  old  damn  ukonnen  & 
power  insound  in  it  the  lord  of  the  saloom,  as  if  for  a  flash  sala- 
magunnded  himself,  listed  his  tummelumpsk  pack  and  hearinat 
presently  returned  him,  ambilaterally  alleyeoneyesed,  from  their 
uppletoned  layir  to  his  beforetime  guests,  that  bunch  of  palers  on 
their  round,  timemarching  and  petrolling  how,  who  if  they  were 
abound  to  loose  a  laugh  (Toni  Lampi,  you  booraascal !)  they  were 
abooned  to  let  it  as  the  leashed  they  might  do  when  they  felt  (O, 
the  wolf  he's  on  the  walk,  sees  his  sham  cram  bokk!)  their  joke 
was  coming  home  to  them,  the  steerage  way  for  stabling,  ghus- 
torily  spoeking,  gen  and  gang,  dane  and  dare,  like  the  dud  spuk 

323 


of  his  first  foetotype  (Trolldedroll,  how  vary  and  likely!),  the  filli- 
bustered,  the  fully  bellied.  With  the  old  sit  in  his  shoulders,  and 
the  new  satin  atlas  onder  his  uxter,  erning  his  breadth  to  the  swelt 
of  his  proud  and,  picking  up  the  emberose  of  the  lizod  lights,  his 
tail  toiled  of  spume  and  spawn,  and  the  bulk  of  him,  and  hulk  of 
him  as  whenever  it  was  he  reddled  a  ruad  to  riddle  a  rede  from  the 
sphinxish  pairc  while  Ede  was  a  guardin,  ere  love  a  side  issue. 
They  hailed  him  cheeringly,  their  encient,  the  murrainer,  and 
wallruse,  the  merman,  ye  seal  that  lubs  you  lassers,  Thallasee  or 
Tullafilmagh,  when  come  of  uniform  age. 

—  Heave,  coves,  emptybloddy! 

And  ere  he  could  catch  or  hook  or  line  to  suit  their  saussyskins, 
the  lumpenpack.  Underbund  was  overraskelled.  As 

—  Sot!  sod  the  tailors  opsits  from  their  gabbalots,  change  all 
that  whole  set.  Shut  down  and  shet  up.  Our  set,  our  set's 
allohn. 

And  they  poured  em  behoiled  on  the  fire.  Scaald! 

Rowdiose  wodhalooing.  Theirs  is  one  lessonless  missage  for 
good  and  truesirs.  Will  any  persen  bereaved  to  be  passent  bring- 
back  or  rumpart  to  the  Hoved  politymester.  Clontarf,  one  love, 
one  fear.  Ellers  for  the  greeter  glossary  of  code,  callen  hom: 
Finucane-Lee,  Finucane-Law. 

Am.  Dg. 

Welter  focussed. 

Wind  from  the  nordth.  Warmer  towards  mufiinbell.  Lull. 

As  our  revelant  Colunnfiller  predicted  in  last  mount's  chattiry 
sermon,  the  allexpected  depression  over  Schiumdinebbia,  a  bygger 
muster  of  veirying  precipitation  and  haralded  by  faugh  sicknells, 
(hear  kokkenhovens  ekstras!)  and  umwalloped  in  an  unusuable 
suite  of  clouds,  having  filthered  through  the  middelhav  of  the 
same  gorgers'  kennel  on  its  wage  wealthwards  and  incursioned  a 
sotten  retch  of  low  pleasure,  missed  in  some  parts  but  with  lucal 
drizzles,  the  outlook  for  tomarry  (Streamstress  Mandig)  beamed 
brider,  his  ability  good. 

What  hopends  to  they? 

Giant  crash  in  Aden.  Birdflights  confirm  abbroaching  nub- 

324 

