"3 


^^^^ 


■V. 


soully  when  'tis  thime  took  o'er  home,  gin.  We  cannot  say  aye 
to  aye.  We  cannot  smile  noes  from  noes.  Stijl.  One  cannot  help 
noticing  that  rather  more  than  half  of  the  lines  run  north-south 
in  the  Nemzes  and  Bukarahast  directions  while  the  others  go 
west-east  in  search  from  Maliziies  with  Bulgarad  for,  tiny  tot 
though  it  looks  when  schtschupnistling  alongside  other  incuna- 
bula, it  has  its  cardinal  points  for  all  that.  These  ruled  barriers 
along  which  the  traced  words,  run,  march,  halt,  walk,  stumble 
at  doubtful  points,  stumble  up  again  in  comparative  safety  seem 
to  have  been  drawn  first  of  all  in  a  pretty  checker  with  lamp- 
black and  blackthorn.  Such  crossing  is  antechristian  of  course, 
but  the  use  of  the  homeborn  shillelagh  as  an  aid  to  calligraphy 
shows  a  distinct  advance  from  savagery  to  barbarism.  It  is 
seriously  believed  by  some  that  the  intention  may  have  been, 
geodetic,  or,  in  the  view  of  the  cannier,  domestic  economical. 
But  by  writing  thithaways  end  to  end  and  turning,  turning  and 
end  to  end  hithaways  writing  and  with  lines  of  litters  slittering 
up  and  louds  of  latters  slettering  down,  the  old  semetomyplace 
and  jupetbackagain  from  tham  Let  Rise  till  Hum  Lit.  Sleep, 
where  in  the  waste  is  the  wisdom.'^ 

Another  point,  in  addition  to  the  original  sand,  pounce  pow- 
der, drunkard  paper  or  soft  rag  used  (any  vet  or  inhanger  in 
ous  sot's  social  can  see  the  seen  for  seemself,  a  wee  ftofty  od 
room,  the  cheery  spluttered  on  the  one  karrig,  a  darka  disheen 
of  voos  from  Dalbania,  any  gotsquantity  of  racky,  a  portogal 
and  some  buk  setting  out  on  the  sofer,  you  remember  the 
sort  of  Softball  sucker  motru  used  to  tell  us  when  we  were  all 
biribiyas  or  nippies  and  messas)  it  has  acquired  accretions  of 
terricious  matter  whilst  loitering  in  the  past.  The  teatimestained 
terminal  (say  not  the  tag,  mummer,  or  our  show's  a  failure!)  is  a 
cosy  little  brown  study  all  to  oneself  and,  whether  it  be  thumb- 
print, mademark  or  just  a  poor  trait  of  the  artless,  its  importance 
in  establishing  the  identities  in  the  writer  complexus  (for  if  the 
hand  was  one,  the  minds  of  active  and  agitated  were  more  than 
so)  will  be  best  appreciated  by  never  forgetting  that  both  before 
and  after  the  battle  of  the  Boyne  it  was  a  habit  not  to  sign  letters 

114 


always.  Tip.  And  it  is  surely  a  lesser  ignorance  to  write  a  word 
with  every  consonant  too  few  than  to  add  all  too  many.  The 
end.^  Say  it  with  missiles  then  and  thus  arabesque  the  page.  You 
have  your  cup  of  scalding  Souchong,  your  taper's  waxen  drop, 
your  cat's  paw,  the  clove  or  coffinnail  you  chewed  or  champed 
as  you  worded  it,  your  lark  in  clear  air.  So  why,  pray,  sign  any- 
thing as  long  as  every  word,  letter,  penstroke,  paperspace  is  a 
perfect  signature  of  its  own.^  A  true  friend  is  known  much  more 
easily,  and  better  into  the  bargain,  by  his  personal  touch,  habits 
of  full  or  undress,  movements,  response  to  appeals  for  charity 
than  by  his  footwear,  say.  And,  speaking  anent  Tiberias  and  other 
incestuish  salacities  among  gerontophils,  a  word  of  warning 
about  the  tenderloined  passion  hinted  at.  Some  softnosed  per- 
user might  mayhem  take  it  up  erogenously  as  the  usual  case  of 
spoons^ pros tituta  in  herba  plus  dinky  pinks  deliberatively  summer- 
saulting off  her  bisexycle,  at  the  main  entrance  of  curate's  per- 
petual soutane  suit  with  her  one  to  see  and  awoh!  who  picks  her 
up  as  gingerly  as  any  balmbearer  would  to  feel  whereupon  the 
virgin  was  most  hurt  and  nicely  asking:  whyre  have  you  been  so 
grace  a  mauling  and  where  were  you  chaste  me  child.'^  Be  who, 
farther  potential.'^  and  so  wider  but  we  grisly  old  Sykos  who  have 
done  our  unsmiling  bit  on  'alices,  when  they  were  yung  and 
easily  freudened,  in  the  penumbra  of  the  procuring  room  and 
what  oracular  comepression  we  have  had  apply  to  them!  could 
(did  we  care  to  sell  our  feebought  silence  in  camera)  tell  our  very 
moistnostrilled  one  that  father  in  such  virgated  contexts  is  not 
always  that  undemonstrative  relative  (often  held  up  to  our  con- 
tumacy) who  settles  our  hashbill  for  us  and  what  an  innocent  all- 
abroad's  adverb  such  as  Michaelly  looks  like  can  be  suggestive 
of  under  the  pudendascope  and,  finally,  what  a  neurasthene  nym- 
pholept,  endocrine-pineal  typus,  of  inverted  parentage  with  a 
prepossessing  drauma  present  in  her  past  and  a  priapic  urge  for 
congress  with  agnates  before  cognates  fundamentally  is  feeling 
for  under  her  lubricitous  meiosis  when  she  refers  with  liking  to 
some  feeler  she  fancie's  face.  And  Mm.  We  could.  Yet  what  need 
to  say.'^  'Tis  as  human  a  little  story  as  paper  could  well  carry,  in 

"5 


affect,  as  singsing  so  Salaman  susuing  to  swittvitles  while  as  un- 
bluffingly  blurtubruskblunt  as  an  Esra,  the  cat,  the  cat's  meeter, 
the  meeter's  cat's  wife,  the  meeter's  cat's  wife's  half  better,  the 
meeter's  cat's  wife's  half  better's  meeter,  and  so  back  to  our 
horses,  for  we  also  know,  what  we  have  perused  from  the  pages 
of  /  IVas  A  Gemral^  that  Showting  up  of  Bulsklivism  by  *Schot- 
tenboum',  that  Father  Michael  about  this  red  time  of  the  white 
terror  equals  the  old  regime  and  Margaret  is  the  social  revolution 
while  cakes  mean  the  party  funds  and  dear  thank  you  signifies 
national  gratitude.  In  fine,  we  have  heard,  as  it  happened,  of 
Spartacus  intercellular.  We  are  not  corknered  yet,  dead  hand! 
We  can  recall,  with  voluntears,  the  froggy  jew,  and  sweeter  far 
'twere  now  westhinks  in  Dumbil's  fair  city  ere  one  more  year  is 
o'er.  We  tourned  our  coasts  to  the  good  gay  tunes.  When  from 
down  swords  the  sea  merged  the  oldowth  guns  and  answer  made 
the  bold  O'  Dwyer.  But.  Est  modest  in  verbos.  Let  a  prostitute 
be  whoso  stands  before  a  door  and  winks  or  parks  herself  in  the 
fornix  near  a  makeussin  wall  (sinsin!  sinsin!)  and  the  curate  one 
who  brings  strong  waters  (gingin!  gingin!),  but  also,  and  dinna 
forget,  that  there  is  many  asleeps  between  someathome's  first 
and  moreinausland's  last  and  that  the  beautiful  presence  of  wait- 
ing kates  will  until  life's  (!)  be  more  than  enough  to  make  any 
milkmike  in  the  language  of  sweet  tarts  punch  hell's  hate  into  his 
twin  nicky  and  that  Maggy's  tea,  or  your  majesty,  if  heard  as  a 
boost  from  a  born  gentleman  is  (?).  For  if  the  lingo  gasped  between 
kicksheets,  however  basically  English,  were  to  be  preached  from 
the  mouths  of  wickerchurchwardens  and  metaphysicians  in  the 
row  and  advokaatoes,  allvoyous,  demivoyelles,  languoaths,  les- 
biels,  dentelles,  gutterhowls  and  furtz,  where  would  their  prac- 
tice be  or  where  the  human  race  itself  were  the  Pythagorean  ses- 
quipedalia  of  the  panepistemion,  however  apically  Volapucky, 
grunted  and  gromwelled,  ichabod,  habakuk,  opanoff,  uggamyg, 
hapaxle,  gomenon,  ppppfff,  over  country  stiles,  behind  slated 
dwellinghouses,  down  blind  lanes,  or,  when  all  fruit  fails,  under 
some  sacking  left  on  a  coarse  cart.'^ 

So  hath  been,  love:  tis  tis:  and  will  be:  till  wears  and  tears  and 

ii6 


ages.  Thief  us  the  night,  steal  we  the  air,  shawl  thiner  liefest, 
mine!  Here,  Ohere,  insult  the  fair!  Traitor,  bad  hearer,  brave! 
The  lightning  look,  the  birding  cry,  awe  from  the  grave,  ever- 
flowing  on  the  times,  Feueragusaria  iordenwater;  now  godsun 
shine  on  menday's  daughter;  a  good  clap,  a  fore  marriage,  a  bad 
wake,  tell  hell's  well;  such  is  manowife's  lot  of  lose  and  win  again, 
like  he's  gruen  quhiskers  on  who's  chin  again,  she  plucketed  them 
out  but  they  grown  in  again.  So  what  are  you  going  to  do  about 
it.^  O  dear! 

If  juness  she  saved!  Ah  ho!  And  if  yulone  he  pouved!  The  ol- 
old  stoliolum!  From  quiqui  quinet  to  michemiche  chelet  and  a 
jambebatiste  to  a  brulobrulo!  It  is  told  in  sounds  in  utter  that,  in 
signs  so  adds  to,  in  universal,  in  polygluttural,  in  each  auxiliary 
neutral  idiom,  sordomutics,  florilingua,  sheltafocal,  flayflutter,  a 
con's  cubane,  a  pro's  tutute,  strassarab,  ereperse  and  anythongue 
athall.  Since  nozzy  Nanette  tripped  palmy  ways  with  Highho 
Harry  there's  a  spurtfire  turf  a'kind  o'kindling  when  oft  as  the 
soufFsoufF  blows  her  peaties  up  and  a  claypot  wet  for  thee,  my 
Sitys,  and  talkatalka  tell  Tibbs  has  eve:  and  whathough  (revilous 
life  proving  aye  the  death  of  ronaldses  when  winpower  wine  has 
bucked  the  kick  on  poor  won  man)  billiousness  has  been  billious- 
ness  during  milliums  of  millenions  and  our  mixed  racings  have 
been  giving  two  hoots  or  three  jeers  for  the  grape,  vine  and  brew 
and  Pieter's  in  Nieuw  Amsteldam  and  Paoli's  where  the  poules 
go  and  rum  smelt  his  end  for  him  and  he  dined  off  sooth  ameri- 
can  (it  would  give  one  the  frier  even  were  one  a  normal  Kettle- 
licker)  this  oldworld  epistola  of  their  weatherings  and  their 
marryings  and  their  buryings  and  their  natural  selections  has 
combled  tumbled  down  to  us  fersch  and  made-at-all-hours  like 
an  ould  cup  on  tay.  As  I  was  hottin  me  souser.  Haha!  And  as 
you  was  caldin  your  dutchy  hovel.  Hoho!  She  tole  the  tail  or 
her  toon.  Huhu! 

Now,  kapnimancy  and  infusionism  may  both  fit  as  tight  as 
two  trivets  but  while  we  in  our  wee  free  state,  holding  to  that 
prestatute  in  our  charter,  may  have  our  irremovable  doubts  as 
to  the  whole  sense  of  the  lot,  the  interpretation  of  any  phrase  in 

117 


the  whole,  the  meaning  of  every  word  of  a  phrase  so  far  de- 
ciphered out  of  it,  however  unfettered  our  Irish  daily  indepen- 
dence, we  must  vaunt  no  idle  dubiosity  as  to  its  genuine  author- 
ship and  holusbolus  authoritativeness.  And  let  us  bringtheecease 
to  beakerings  on  that  clink,  olmond  bottler!  On  the  face  of  it, 
to  volt  back  to  our  desultory  horses,  and  for  your  roughshod 
mind,  bafflelost  bull,  the  affair  is  a  thing  once  for  all  done  and 
there  you  are  somewhere  and  finished  in  a  certain  time,  be  it  a 
day  or  a  year  or  even  supposing,  it  should  eventually  turn  out 
to  be  a  serial  number  of  goodness  gracious  alone  knows  how 
many  days  or  years.  Anyhow,  somehow  and  somewhere,  before 
the  bookflood  or  after  her  ebb,  somebody  mentioned  by  name  in 
his  telephone  directory,  Coccolanius  or  Gallotaurus,  wrote  it, 
wrote  it  all,  wrote  it  all  down,  and  there  you  are,  full  stop.  O, 
undoubtedly  yes,  and  very  potably  so,  but  one  who  deeper  thinks 
will  always  bear  in  the  baccbuccus  of  his  mind  that  this  down- 
right there  you  are  and  there  it  is  is  only  all  in  his  eye.  Why.'^ 

Because,  Soferim  Bebel,  if  it  goes  to  that,  (and  dormerwindow 
gossip  will  cry  it  from  the  housetops  no  surelier  than  the  writing 
on  the  wall  will  hue  it  to  the  mod  of  men  that  mote  in  the  main 
street)  every  person,  place  and  thing  in  the  chaosmos  of  Alle 
anyway  connected  with  the  gobblydumped  turkery  was  moving 
and  changing  every  part  of  the  time:  the  travelling  inkhorn 
(possibly  pot),  the  hare  and  turtle  pen  and  paper,  the  continually 
more  and  less  intermisunderstanding  minds  of  the  anticollabora- 
tors,  the  as  time  went  on  as  it  will  variously  inflected,  differently 
pronounced,  otherwise  spelled,  changeably  meaning  vocable 
scriptsigns.  No,  so  holp  me  Petault,  it  is  not  a  miseffectual  why- 
acinthinous  riot  of  blots  and  blurs  and  bars  and  balls  and  hoops 
and  wriggles  and  juxtaposed  jottings  linked  by  spurts  of  speed: 
it  only  looks  as  like  it  as  damn  it;  and,  sure,  we  ought  really  to 
rest  thankful  that  at  this  deleteful  hour  of  dungflies  dawning  we 
have  even  a  written  on  with  dried  ink  scrap  of  paper  at  all  to  show 
for  ourselves,  tare  it  or  leaf  it,  (and  we  are  lufted  to  ourselves  as 
the  soulfisher  when  he  led  the  cat  out  of  the  bout)  after  all  that 
we  lost  and  plundered  of  it  even  to  the  hidmost  coignings  of  the 

ii8 


earth  and  all  it  has  gone  through  and  by  all  means,  after  a  good 
ground  kiss  to  Terracussa  and  for  wars  luck  our  lefftoff's  flung 
over  our  home  homoplate,  cling  to  it  as  with  drowning  hands, 
hoping  against  hope  all  the  while  that,  by  the  light  of  philo- 
phosy,  (and  may  she  never  folsage  us!)  things  will  begin  to  clear 
up  a  bit  one  way  or  another  within  the  next  quarrel  of  an  hour 
and  be  hanged  to  them  as  ten  to  one  they  will  too,  please  the  pigs, 
as  they  ought  to  categorically,  as,  stricly  between  ourselves,  there 
is  a  limit  to  all  things  so  this  will  never  do. 

For,  with  that  farmfrow's  foul  flair  for  that  flayfell  foxfetor, 
(the  calamite's  columitas  calling  for  calamitous  calamitance)  who 
that  scrutinising  marvels  at  those  indignant  whiplooplashes;  those 
so  prudently  bolted  or  blocked  rounds;  the  touching  reminiscence 
of  an  incompletet  trail  or  dropped  final;  a  round  thousand  whirli- 
gig glorioles,  prefaced  by  (alas!)  now  illegible  airy  plumeflights, 
all  tiberiously  ambiembellishing  the  initials  majuscule  of  Ear- 
wicker:  the  meant  to  be  baffling  chrismon  trilithon  sign  m,  finally 
called  after  some  his  hes  hecitency  Hec,  which,  moved  contra- 
watchwise,  represents  his  title  in  sigla  as  the  smaller  A,  fontly 
called  following  a  certain  change  of  state  of  grace  of  nature  alp 
or  delta,  when  single,  stands  for  or  tautologically  stands  beside 
the  consort:  (though  for  that  matter,  since  we  have  heard  from 
Cathay  cyrcles  how  the  hen  is  not  mirely  a  tick  or  two  after  the 
first  fifth  fourth  of  the  second  eighth  twelfth  —  siangchang 
hongkong  sansheneul  —  but  yirely  the  other  and  thirtieth  of  the 
ninth  from  the  twentieth,  our  own  vulgar  432  and  1132  irre- 
spectively, why  not  take  the  former  for  a  village  inn,  the  latter 
for  an  upsidown  bridge,  a  multiplication  marking  for  crossroads 
ahead,  which  you  like  pothook  for  the  family  gibbet,  their  old 
fourwheedler  for  the  bucker's  field,  a  tea  anyway  for  a  tryst 
someday,  and  his  onesidemissing  for  an  allblind  alley  leading  to 
an  Irish  plot  in  the  Champ  de  Mors,  not?)  the  steady  monologuy 
of  the  interiors;  the  pardonable  confusion  for  which  some  blame 
the  cudgel  and  more  blame  the  soot  but  unthanks  to  which 
the  pees  with  their  caps  awry  are  quite  as  often  as  not  taken 
for  kews  with  their  tails  in  their  or  are  quite  as  often  as  not 

119 


taken  for  pews  with  their  tails  in  their  mouths,  thence  your 
pristopher  polombos,  hence  our  Kat  Kresbyterians;  the  curt 
witty  wotty  dashes  never  quite  just  right  at  the  trim  trite 
truth  letter;  the  sudden  spluttered  petulance  of  some  capitalised 
middle;  a  word  as  cunningly  hidden  in  its  maze  of  confused 
drapery  as  a  fieldmouse  in  a  nest  of  coloured  ribbons:  that  ab- 
surdly bullsfooted  bee  declaring  with  an  even  plainer  dummp- 
show  than  does  the  mute  commoner  with  us  how  hard  a  thing  it 
is  to  mpe  mpom  a  gentlerman:  and  look  at  this  prepronominal 
funferal^  engraved  and  retouched  and  edgewiped  and  pudden- 
padded,  very  like  a  whale's  egg  farced  with  pemmican,  as  were  it 
sentenced  to  be  nuzzled  over  a  full  trillion  times  for  ever  and  a 
night  till  his  noddle  sink  or  swim  by  that  ideal  reader  suffering 
from  an  ideal  insomnia:  all  those  red  raddled  obeli  cayennepep- 
percast  over  the  text,  calling  unnecessary  attention  to  errors, 
omissions,  repetitions  and  misalignments:  that  (probably  local  or 
personal)  variant  maggers  for  the  more  generally  accepted  ma- 
jesty which  is  but  a  trifle  and  yet  may  quietly  amuse:  those  super- 
ciliouslooking  crisscrossed  Greek  ees  awkwardlike  perched  there 
and  here  out  of  date  like  sick  owls  hawked  back  to  Athens:  and 
the  geegees  too,  jesuistically  formed  at  first  but  afterwards  genu- 
flected aggrily  toewards  the  Occident:  the  Ostrogothic  kako- 
graphy  affected  for  certain  phrases  of  Etruscan  stabletalk  and,  in 
short,  the  learning  betrayed  at  almost  every  line's  end:  the  head- 
strength  (at  least  eleven  men  of  thirty  two  palfry  craft)  revealed 
by  a  constant  labour  to  make  a  ghimel  pass  through  the  eye  of  an 
iota:  this,  for  instance,  utterly  unexpected  sinistrogyric  return  to 
one  peculiar  sore  point  in  the  past;  those  throne  open  doubleyous 
(of  an  early  muddy  terranean  origin  whether  man  chooses  to 
damn  them  agglutinatively  loo  —  too  —  blue  —  face  —  ache  or 
illvoodawpeehole  or,  kants  koorts,  topplefouls)  seated  with  such 
floprightdown  determination  and  reminding  uus  ineluctably  of 
nature  at  her  naturalest  while  that  fretful  fidget  eff,  the  hornful 
digamma  of  your  bornabarbar,  rarely  heard  now  save  when  falling 
from  the  unfashionable  lipsus  of  some  hetarosexual  (used  always 
in  two  boldfaced  print  types  —  one  of  them  as  wrongheaded  as 

1 20 


his  Claudian  brother,  is  it  worth  while  interrupting  to  say?  — 
throughout  the  papyrus  as  the  revise  mark)  stalks  all  over  the 
page,  broods  i  sensationseeking  an  idea,  amid  the  verbiage, 
gaunt,  stands  dejectedly  in  the  diapered  window  margin,  with 
its  basque  of  bayleaves  all  aflutter  about  its  forksfrogs,  paces 
with  a  frown,  jerking  to  and  fro,  flinging  phrases  here,  there,  or 
returns  inhibited,  with  some  half-halted  suggestion,  L,  dragging 
its  shoestring;  the  curixiuis  warning  sign  before  our  protoparent's 
ipsissima  verba  (a  very  pure  nondescript,  by  the  way,  sometimes 
a  palmtailed  otter,  more  often  the  arbutus  fruitflowerleaf  of  the 
cainapple)  which  paleographers  call  a  leak  in  the  thatch  or  the 
Aranman  ingperwhis  through  the  hole  of  his  hat^  indicating  that  the 
words  which  follow  may  be  taken  in  any  order  desired,  hole  of 
Aran  man  the  hat  through  the  whispering  his  ho  (here  keen 
again  and  begin  again  to  make  soundsense  and  sensesound  kin 
again);  those  haughtypitched  disdotted  aiches  easily  of  the  rariest 
inasdroll  as  most  of  the  jaywalking  eyes  we  do  plough  into  halve, 
unconnected,  principial,  medial  or  final,  always  jims  in  the  jam, 
sahib,  as  pipless  as  threadworms:  the  innocent  exhibitionism  of 
those  frank  yet  capricious  underlinings:  that  strange  exotic  serpen- 
tine, since  so  properly  banished  from  our  scripture,  about  as  freak- 
wing  a  wetterhand  now  as  to  see  a  rightheaded  ladywhite  don  a 
corkhorse,  which,  in  its  invincible  insolence  ever  longer  more  and 
of  more  morosity,  seems  to  uncoil  spirally  and  swell  lacertinelazily 
before  our  eyes  under  pressure  of  the  writer's  hand;  the  ungainly 
musicianlessness  so  painted  in  sculpting  selfsounder  ah  ha  as 
blackartful  as  a  podatus  and  dumbfounder  oh  ho  oaproariose  as 
ten  canons  in  skelterfugue:  the  studious  omission  of  year  number 
and  era  name  from  the  date,  the  one  and  only  time  when  our 
copyist  seems  at  least  to  have  grasped  the  beauty  of  restraint;  the 
lubricitous  conjugation  of  the  last  with  the  first:  the  gipsy  mat- 
ing of  a  grand  stylish  gravedigging  with  secondbest  buns  (an  in- 
terpolation: these  munchables  occur  only  in  the  Bootherbrowth 
family  of  MSS.,  Bb  —  Cod  IV,  Pap  II,  Brek  XI,  Lun  III,  Dinn 
XVII,  Sup  XXX,  Fullup  M  D  C  X  C:  the  scholiast  has  hungrily 
misheard  a  deadman's  toller  as  a  mufiinbell):  the  four  shortened 

121 


ampersands  under  which  we  can  glypse  at  and  feel  for  ourselves 
across  all  those  rushyears  the  warm  soft  short  pants  of  the  quick- 
scribbler:  the  vocative  lapse  from  which  it  begins  and  the  accu- 
sative hole  in  which  it  ends  itself;  the  aphasia  of  that  heroic  agony 
of  recalling  a  once  loved  number  leading  slip  by  slipper  to  a 
general  amnesia  of  misnomering  one's  own:  next  those  ars,  rrrr! 
those  ars  all  bellical,  the  highpriest's  hieroglyph  of  kettletom  and 
oddsbones,  wrasted  redhandedly  from  our  hallowed  rubric  prayer 
for  truce  with  booty,  0' Remus  pro  Romulo^  and  rudely  from  the 
fane's  pinnacle  tossed  down  by  porter  to  within  an  aim's  ace  of 
their  quatrain  of  rubyjets  among  Those  Who  arse  without  the 
Temple  nor  since  Roe's  Distillery  burn'd  have  quaff'd  Night's 
firefiird  Cup  But  jig  jog  jug  as  Day  the  Dicebox  Throws,  whang, 
loyal  sLx  I  lead,  out  wi'yer  heart's  bluid,  blast  ye,  and  there  she's 
for  you,  sir,  whang  her,  the  fine  ooman,  rouge  to  her  lobster 
locks,  the  rossy,  whang,  God  and  O'Mara  has  it  with  his  ruddy 
old  Villain  Rufus,  wait,  whang,  God  and  you're  another  he 
hasn't  for  there's  my  spoil  five  of  spuds's  trumps,  whang,  whack 
on  his  pigsking's  Kisser  for  him,  K.M.  O'Mara  where  are  you?; 
then  (coming  over  to  the  left  aisle  corner  down)  the  cruciform 
postscript  from  which  three  basia  or  shorter  and  smaller  oscula 
have  been  overcarefully  scraped  away,  plainly  inspiring  the  tene- 
brous Tunc  page  of  the  Book  of  Kells  (and  then  it  need  not  be 
lost  sight  of  that  there  are  exactly  three  squads  of  candidates  for 
the  crucian  rose  awaiting  their  turn  in  the  marginal  panels  of 
Columkiller,  chugged  in  their  three  ballotboxes,  then  set  apart  for 
such  hanging  committees,  where  two  was  enough  for  anyone, 
starting  with  old  Matthew  himself,  as  he  with  great  disdnction 
said  then  just  as  since  then  people  speaking  have  fallen  into  the 
custom,  when  speaking  to  a  person,  of  saying  two  is  company 
when  the  third  person  is  the  person  darkly  spoken  of,  and  then 
that  last  labiolingual  hasium  might  be  read  as  a  suavium  if  who- 
ever the  embracer  then  was  wrote  with  a  tongue  in  his  (or  per- 
haps her)  cheek  as  the  case  may  have  been  then);  and  the  fatal 
droopadwindle  slope  of  the  blamed  scrawl,  a  sure  sign  of  imper- 
fectible  moral  blindness;  the  toomuchness,  the  fartoomanyness 

122 


of  all  those  fourlegged  ems:  and  why  spell  dear  god  with  a  big 
thick  dhee  (why,  O  why,  O  why?):  the  cut  and  dry  aks  and  wise 
form  of  the  semifinal;  and,  eighteenthly  or  twentyfourthly,  but 
at  least,  thank  Maurice,  lastly  when  all  is  zed  and  done,  the  pene- 
lopean  patience  of  its  last  paraphe,  a  colophon  of  no  fewer  than 
seven  hundred  and  thirtytwo  strokes  tailed  by  a  leaping  lasso  — 
who  thus  at  all  this  marvelling  but  will  press  on  hotly  to  see  the 
vaulting  feminine  libido  of  those  interbranching  ogham  sex  up- 
andinsweeps  sternly  controlled  and  easily  repersuaded  by  the 
uniform  matteroffactness  of  a  meandering  male  fist? 

Duff-Muggli,  who  now  may  be  quoted  by  very  kind  arrange- 
ment (his  dectroscophonious  photosensition  under  suprasonic 
light  control  may  be  logged  for  by  our  none  too  distant  futures 
as  soon  astone  values  can  be  turned  out  from  Chromophilomos, 
Limited  at  a  millicentime  the  microamp),  first  called  this  kind  of 
paddygoeasy  partnership  the  ulykkhean  or  tetrachiric  or  quad- 
rumane  or  ducks  and  drakes  or  debts  and  dishes  perplex  (v.  Some 
Forestallings  over  that  Studium  of  Sexophonologistic  Schiiophre- 
nesis,  vol.  xxiv,  pp.  2-555)  ^^^^^  ^he  wellinformed  observation, 
made  miles  apart  from  the  Master  by  Tung-Toyd  (cf.  Later 
Frustrations  amengst  the  Neomugglian  Teachings  abaft  the  Semi- 
unconsciencey  passim)  that  in  the  case  of  the  littleknown  periplic 
bestteller  popularly  associated  with  the  names  of  the  wretched 
mariner  (trianforan  deffwedoff  our  plumsucked  pattern  shape- 
keeper)  a  Punic  admiralty  report.  From  MacPersons  Oshean 
Round  By  the  Tides  of  Jason  s  Cruise^  had  been  cleverly  capsized 
and  saucily  republished  as  a  dodecanesian  baedeker  of  the  every- 
tale-a-treat-in-itself  variety  which  could  hope  satisfactorily  to 
tickle  me  gander  as  game  as  your  goose. 

The  unmistaken  identity  of  the  persons  in  the  Tiberiast  du- 
plex came  to  light  in  the  most  devious  of  ways.  The  original 
document  was  in  what  is  known  as  Hanno  O'Nonhanno's  un- 
brookable  script,  that  is  to  say,  it  showed  no  signs  of  punctua- 
tion of  any  sort.  Yet  on  holding  the  verso  against  a  lit  rush  this 
new  book  of  Morses  responded  most  remarkably  to  the  silent 
query  of  our  world's  oldest  light  and  its  recto  let  out  the  piquant 

123 


fact  that  it  was  but  pierced  butnot  punctured  (in  the  university 
sense  of  the  term)  by  numerous  stabs  and  foliated  gashes  made 
by  a  pronged  instrument.  These  paper  wounds,  four  in  type, 
were  gradually  and  correctly  understood  to  mean  stop,  please 
stop,  do  please  stop,  and  O  do  please  stop  respectively,  and 
following  up  their  one  true  clue,  the  circumflexuous  wall  of  a 
singleminded  men's  asylum,  accentuated  by  bi  tso  fb  rok  engl 
a  ssan  dspl  itch  ina,  —  Yard  inquiries  pointed  out  — ^  that  they 
ad  bin  "provoked"  ay  A  fork,  of  a  grave  Brofesor;  ath  e's  Br^ak 
—  fast  —  table;  ;  acutely  professionally  piqued^  to=introdiice  a 
notion  of  time  [upon  a  plane  (?)  su  ' '  fag'e']  by  pianct!  ingh  oles 
(sic)  in  iSpace?!  Deeply  religious  by  nature  and  position,  and 
warmly  attached  to  Thee,  and  smearbread  and  better  and  Him 
and  newlaidills,  it  was  rightly  suspected  that  such  ire  could  not 
have  been  visited  by  him  Brotfressor  Prenderguest  even  under- 
wittingly,  upon  the  ancestral  pneuma  of  one  whom,  with  rheuma, 
he  venerated  shamelessly  at  least  once  a  week  at  Cockspur  Com- 
mon as  his  apple  in  his  eye  and  her  first  boys'  best  friend  and, 
though  plain  English  for  a  married  lady  misled  heaps  by  the  way, 
yet  when  some  peerer  or  peeress  detected  that  the  fourleaved 
shamrock  or  quadrifoil  jab  was  more  recurrent  wherever  the 
script  was  clear  and  the  term  terse  and  that  these  two  were  the 
selfsame  spots  naturally  selected  for  her  perforations  by  Dame 
Partlet  on  her  dungheap,  thinkers  all  put  grown  in  waterung- 
spillfull  Pratiland  only  and  a  playful  fowl  and  musical  me  and 
not  you  in  any  case,  two  and  two  together,  and,  with  a  swarm 
of  hisses  honeyhunting  after,  a  sigh  for  shyme  (O,  the  petty- 
bonny  rouge!)  separated  modest  mouths.  So  be  it.  And  it  was. 
The  letter  making  of  the  explots  of  Fjorgn  Camhelsson  when  he 
was  in  the  Kvinnes  country  with  Soldru's  men.  With  acknow- 
ledgment of  our  fervour  of  the  first  instant  he  remains  years  most 
fainfully.  For  postscrapt  see  spoils.  Though  not  yet  had  the  sailor 
sipped  that  sup  nor  the  humphar  foamed  to  the  fill.  And  fox  and 
geese  still  kept  the  peace  around  LAuherge  du  Pere  Adam, 

Small  need  after  that,  old  Jeromesolem,  old  Huffsnuff,  old 
Andycox,  old  Olecasandrum,  for  quizzing  your  weekenders  come 

124 


! 


to  the  R.Q.  with:  shoots  ofF  in  a  hiss,  muddles  up  in  a  mussmass 
and  his  whole's  a  dismantled  noondrunkard's  son.  Howbeit  we 
heard  not  a  son  of  sons  to  leave  by  him  to  oceanic  society  in  his 
old  man  without  a  thing  in  his  ignorance,  Tulko  MacHooley. 
And  it  was  thus  he  was  at  every  time,  that  son,  and  the  other 
time,  the  day  was  in  it  and  after  the  morrow  Diremood  is  the 
name  is  on  the  writing  chap  of  the  psalter,  the  juxtajunctor  of  a 
dearmate  and  he  passing  out  of  one  desire  into  its  fellow.  The 
daughters  are  after  going  and  loojing  for  him,  Torba's  nice- 
lookers  of  the  fair  neck.  Wanted  for  millinary  servance  to 
olderly's  person  by  the  Totty  Askinses.  Formelly  confounded 
with  amother.  Maybe  growing  a  moustache,  did  you  say,  with 
an  adorable  look  of  amuzement?  And  uses  noclass  billiardhalls 
with  an  upandown  ladder?  Not  Hans  the  Curier  though  had  he 
had  have  only  had  some  little  laughings  and  some  less  of  cheeks 
and  were  he  not  so  warried  by  his  bulb  of  persecussion  he  could 
have,  ay,  and  would  have,  as  true  as  Essex  bridge.  And  not  Go- 
pheph  go  gossip,  I  declare  to  man!  Noel  To  all's  much  relief 
one's  half  hypothesis  of  that  jabberjaw  ape  amok  the  showering 
jestnuts  of  Bruisanose  was  hotly  dropped  and  his  room  taken  up 
by  that  odious  and  still  today  insufficiently  malestimated  note- 
snatcher  (kak,  pfooi,  bosh  and  fiety,  much  earny,  Gus,  poteen? 
Sez  you!)  Shem  the  Penman. 


125 


So? 

Who  do  you  no  tonigh,  lazy  and  gentleman? 

The  echo  is  where  in  the  back  of  the  wodes;  callhim  forth! 

(Shaun  Mac  Irewick,  briefdragger,  for  the  concern  of  Messrs 
Jhon  Jhamieson  and  Song,  rated  one  hundrick  and  thin  per 
storehundred  on  this  nightly  quisquiquock  of  the  twelve  apos- 
trophes, set  by  Jockit  Mic  Ereweak.  He  misunderstruck  and  aim 
for  am  olio  of  number  three  of  them  and  left  his  free  natural  ri- 
postes to  four  of  them  in  their  own  fine  artful  disorder,) 

I.  What  secondtonone  myther  rector  and  maximost  bridges- 
maker  was  the  first  to  rise  taller  through  his  beanstale  than  the 
bluegum  buaboababbaun  or  the  giganteous  Wellingtonia  Sequoia; 
went  nudiboots  with  trouters  into  a  lifFeyette  when  she  was 
barely  in  her  tricklies;  was  well  known  to  claud  a  conciliation 
cap  onto  the  esker  of  his  booth;  sports  a  chainganger's  albert 
solemenly  over  his  hullender's  epulence;  thought  he  weighed  a 
new  ton  when  there  felled  his  first  lapapple;  gave  the  heinous- 
ness  of  choice  to  everyknight  betwixt  yesterdicks  and  twomaries; 
had  sevenal  successivecoloured  serebanmaids  on  the  same  big 
white  drawringroam  horthrug;  is  a  Willbeforce  to  this  hour  at 
house  as  he  was  in  heather;  pumped  the  catholick  wartrey  and 
shocked  the  prodestung  boyne;  killed  his  own  hungery  self  in 
anger  as  a  young  man;  found  fodder  for  five  when  allmarken 
rose  gofiooded;  with  Hirish  tutores  Cornish  made  easy;  voucher 

126 


of  rotables,  toll  of  the  road;  bred  manyheaded  stepsons  for  one 
leapyourown  taughter;  is  too  funny  for  a  fish  and  has  too  much 
outside  for  an  insect;  like  a  heptagon  crystal  emprisoms  trues  and 
fauss  for  us;  is  infinite  swell  in  unfitting  induments;  once  was  he 
shovelled  and  once  was  he  arsoned  and  once  was  he  inundered 
and  she  hung  him  out  billbailey;  has  a  quadrant  in  his  tile  to  tell 
Toler  cad  a'clog  it  is;  offers  chances  to  Long  on  but  stands  up 
to  Legge  before;  found  coal  at  the  end  of  his  harrow  and  moss- 
roses  behind  the  seams;  made  a  fort  out  of  his  postern  and  wrote 
F.E.R.T.  on  his  buckler;  is  escapemaster-in-chief  from  all  sorts 
of  houdingplaces;  if  he  outharrods  against  barkers,  to  the  shool- 
bred  he  acts  whiteley;  was  evacuated  at  the  mere  appearance  of 
three  germhuns  and  twice  besieged  by  a  sweep;  from  zoomor- 
phology  to  omnianimalism  he  is  brooched  by  the  spin  of  a  coin; 
towers,  an  eddistoon  amid  the  lampless,  casting  swannbeams  on 
the  deep;  threatens  thunder  upon  malefactors  and  sends  whispers 
up  fraufrau's  froufrous;  when  Dook  Hookbackcrook  upsits  his 
ass  booseworthies  jeer  and  junket  but  they  boos  him  oos  and  baas 
his  aas  when  he  lukes  like  Hunkett  Plunkett;  by  sosannsos  and 
search  a  party  on  a  lady  of  this  city;  business,  reading  news- 
paper, smoking  cigar,  arranging  tumblers  on  table,  eating  meals, 
pleasure,  etcetera,  etcetera,  pleasure,  eating  meals,  arranging  tum- 
blers on  table,  smoking  cigar,  reading  newspaper,  business; 
minerals,  wash  and  brush  up,  local  views,  juju  toffee,  comic  and 
birthdays  cards;  those  were  the  days  and  he  was  their  hero;  pink 
sunset  shower,  red  clay  cloud,  sorrow  or  Sahara,  oxhide  or  Iren; 
arraigned  and  attainted,  listed  and  lited,  pleaded  and  proved; 
catches  his  check  at  banck  of  Indgangd  and  endurses  his  doom  at 
chapel  exit;  brain  of  the  franks,  hand  of  the  christian,  tongue  of 
the  north;  commands  to  dinner  and  calls  the  bluff;  has  a  block  at 
Morgen's  and  a  hatache  all  the  afternunch;  plays  gehamerat  when 
he's  ernst  but  misses  mausey  when  he's  lustyg;  walked  as  far  as 
the  Head  where  he  sat  in  state  as  the  Rump;  shows  Early  Eng- 
lish tracemarks  and  a  marigold  window  with  manigilt  lights,  a 
myrioscope,  two  remarkable  piscines  and  three  wellworthseeing 
ambries;  arches  all  portcullised  and  his  nave  dates  from  dots;  is 

127 


a  horologe  unstoppable  and  the  Benn  of  all  bells;  fuit,  isst  and 
herit  and  though  he's  mildewstaned  he's  mouldystoned;  is  a  quer- 
cuss  in  the  forest  but  plane  member  for  Megalopolis;  mountun- 
mighty,  faunonfleetfoot;  plank  in  our  platform,  blank  in  our 
scouturn;  hidal,  in  carucates  he  is  enumerated,  hold  as  an  earl, 
he  counts;  shipshaped  phrase  of  buglooking  words  with  a  form 
like  the  easing  moments  of  a  graminivorous;  to  our  dooms 
brought  he  law,  our  manoirs  he  made  his  vill  of;  was  an  over- 
grind  to  the  underground  and  acqueduced  for  fierythroats;  sends 
boys  in  socks  acoughawhooping  when  he  lets  farth  his  carbon- 
oxside  and  silk  stockings  show  her  shapings  when  he  looses  hose 
on  hers;  stocks  dry  puder  for  the  111  people  and  pinkun's  pellets 
for  all  the  Pale;  gave  his  mundyfoot  to  Miserius,  her  pinch  to 
Anna  Livia,  that  superfine  pigtail  to  Cerisia  Cerosia  and  quid 
rides  to  Titius,  Caius  and  Sempronius;  made  the  man  who  had 
no  notion  of  shopkeepers  feel  he'd  rather  play  the  duke  than  play 
the  gentleman;  shot  two  queans  and  shook  three  caskles  when 
he  won  his  game  of  dwarfs;  fumes  inwards  like  a  strombolist  till 
he  smokes  at  both  ends;  manmote,  befier  of  him,  womankind, 
pietad!;  shows  one  white  drift  of  snow  among  the  gorsegrowth 
of  his  crown  and  a  chaperon  of  repentance  on  that  which  shed 
gore;  pause  and  quies,  triple  bill;  went  by  metro  for  the  polis  and 
then  hoved  by;  to  the  finders,  hail!  woa,  you  that  seek!;  whom 
fillth  had  plenished,  dearth  devoured;  hock  is  leading,  cocoa  comes 
next,  emery  tries  for  the  flag;  can  dance  the  O' Bruin's  polerpasse 
at  Noolahn  to  his  own  orchistruss  accompaniment;  took  place 
before  the  internatural  convention  of  catholic  midwives  and 
found  stead  before  the  congress  for  the  study  of  endonational 
calamities;  makes  a  delictuous  entree  and  finishes  off  the  course 
between  sweets  and  savouries;  flouts  for  forecasts,  flairs  for  finds 
and  the  fun  of  the  fray  on  the  fairground;  cleared  out  three  hun- 
dred sixty  five  idles  to  set  up  one  all  khalassal  for  henwives  hoping 
to  have  males;  the  flawhoolagh,  the  grasping  one,  the  kindler  of 
paschal  fire;  forbids  us  our  trespassers  as  we  forgate  him;  the 
phoenix  be  his  pyre,  the  cineres  his  sire!;  piles  big  pelium  on 
little  ossas  like  the  pilluls  of  hirculeads;  has  an  eatupus  complex 

128 

