Achdung!  Pozor!  Attenshune!  Vikeroy  Besights  Smucky 
Yung  Pigeschoolies.  Tri  Paisdinernes  Eventyr  Med  Lochlanner 
Fathach  I  Fiounnisgehaven.  Bannalanna  Bangs  Ballyhooly  Out 
Of  Her  Buddaree  Of  A  Bullavogue. 

But,  their  bright  little  contemporaries  notwithstanding,  on 
the  morrowing  morn  of  the  suicidal  murder  of  the  unrescued  ex- 
patriate, aslike  as  asnake  comes  sliduant  down  that  oaktree  onto 
the  duke  of  beavers,  (you  may  have  seen  some  liquidamber  exude 
exotic  from  a  balsam  poplar  at  Parteen-a-lax  Limestone.  Road 
and  cried  Abies  Magnifica!  not,  noble  fir.^)  a  quarter  of  nine, 
imploring  his  resipiency,  saw  the  infallible  spike  of  smoke's  juts  tiff 
punctual  from  the  seventh  gable  of  our  Quintus  Centimachus' 
porphyroid  buttertower  and  then  thirsty  p.m.  with  oaths  upon 
his  lastingness  {En  caecos  har auspices!  Annos  longos  padmurl)  the 
lamps  of  maintenance,  beaconsfarafield  innerhalf  the  zuggurat,  all 
brevetnamed,  the  wasting  wyvern,  the  tawny  of  his  mane,  the 
swinglowswaying  bluepaw,  the  outstanding  man,  the  lolllike  lady, 
being  litten  for  the  long  (O  land,  how  long!)  lifesnight,  with 
suffusion  of  fineglass  transom  and  leadlight  panes. 

Wherefore  let  it  hardly  by  any  being  thinking  be  said  either  or 
thought  that  the  prisoner  of  that  sacred  edifice,  were  he  an  Ivor 
the  Boneless  or  an  Olaf  the  Hide,  was  at  his  best  a  onestone  par- 
able, a  rude  breathing  on  the  void  of  to  be,  a  venter  hearing  his 
own  bauchspeech  in  backwords,  or,  more  strictly,  but  tristurned 
initials,  the  cluekey  to  a  worldroom  beyond  the  roomwhorld,  for 
scarce  one,  or  pathetically  few  of  his  dode  canal  sammenlivers 
cared  seriously  or  for  long  to  doubt  with  Kurt  luld  van  Dijke 
(the  gravitational  pull  perceived  by  certain  fixed  residents  and 
the  capture  of  uncertain  comets  chancedrifting  through  our  sys- 
tem suggesting  an  authenticitatem  of  his  aliquitudinis)  the  canoni- 
city  of  his  existence  as  a  tesseract.  Be  still,  O  quick!  Speak  him 
dumb!  Hush  ye  fronds  of  Ulma! 

lOO 


1 


Dispersal  women  wondered.  Was  she  fast? 

Dojell  us  all  aboujL_As-^we  want  to  hear  allabout.  So  tellus  tel- 
las  allabouter.  The  why  or  whether  she  looked  alottylike  like 
ussies  and  whether  he  had  his  wimdop  like  themses  shut?  Notes 
and  queries,  tipbids  and  answers,  the  laugh  and  the  shout,  the 
ards  and  downs.  Now  listed  to  one  aneither  and  liss  them  down 
and  smoothen  out  your  leaves  of  rose.  The  war  is  o'er.  Wimwim 
wimwim!  Was  it  Unity  Moore  or  Estella  Swifte  or  Varina  Fay 
or  Quarta  Quaedam?  Toemaas,  mark  oom  for  yor  ounckel!  Pig- 
eys,  hold  op  med  yer  leg!  Who,  but  who  (for  second  time  of 
asking)  was  then  the  scourge  of  the  parts  about  folkrich  Luca- 
lizod  it  was  wont  to  be  asked,  as,  in  ages  behind  of  the  Homo 
Capite  Erectus,  what  price  Peabody's  money,  or,  to  put  it 
bluntly,  whence  is  the  herringtons'  white  cravat,  as,  in  epochs 
more  cainozoic,  who  struck  Buckley  though  nowadays  as  then- 
times  every  schoolfilly  of  sevenscore  moons  or  more  who  knows 
her  intimologies  and  every  colleen  bawl  aroof  and  every  red- 
flammelwaving  warwife  and  widowpeace  upon  Dublin  Wall  for 
ever  knows  as  yayas  is  yayas  how  it  was  Buckleyself  (we  need 
no  blooding  paper  to  tell  it  neither)  who  struck  and  the  Russian 
generals,  da!  da!,  instead  of  Buckley  who  was  caddishly  struck 
by  him  when  be  herselves.  What  fullpried  paulpoison  in  the  spy 
of  three  castles  or  which  hatefilled  smileyseller?  And  that  such 
a  vetriol  of  venom,  that  queen's  head  affranchisant,  a  quiet  stink- 
ingplaster  zeal  could  cover,  prepostered  or  postpaid !  The  lounge- 
lizards  of  the  pumproom  had  their  nine  days'  jeer,  and  pratsch- 
kats  at  their  platschpails  too  and  holenpolendom  beside,  Szpasz- 
pas  Szpissmas,  the  zhanyzhonies,  when,  still  believing  in  her 
owenglass,  when  izarres  were  twinklins,  that  the  upper  reaches 
of  her  mouthless  face  and  her  impermanent  waves  were  the  better 
half  of  her,  one  nearer  him,  dearer  than  all,  first  warming  creature 
of  his  early  morn,  bondwoman  of  the  man  of  the  house,  and 
murrmurr  of  all  the  mackavicks,  she  who  had  given  his  eye  for 
her  bed  and  a  tooth  for  a  child  till  one  one  and  one  ten  and  one 
hundred  again,  O  me  and  O  ye !  cadet  and  prim,  the  hungray  and 
anngreen  (and  if  she  is  older  now  than  her  teeth  she  has  hair  that 

lOI 


is  younger  than  thighne,  my  dear!)  she  who  shuttered  him  after 
his  fall  and  waked  him  widowt  sparing  and  gave  him  keen  and 
made  him  able  and  held  adazillahs  to  each  arche  of  his  noes,  she 
who  will  not  rast  her  from  her  running  to  seek  him  till,  with  the 
help  of  the  okeamic,  some  such  time  that  she  shall  have  been  after 
hiding  the  crumbends  of  his  enormousness  in  the  areyou  looking- 
for  Pearlfar  sea,  (ur,  uri,  uria!)  stood  forth,  burnzburn  the  gorg- 
gony  old  dan  world,  in  gogor's  name,  for  gagar's  sake,  dragging 
the  countryside  in  her  train,  finickin  here  and  funickin  there, 
with  her  louisequean's  brogues  and  her  culunder  buzzle  and  her 
little  bolero  boa  and  all  and  two  times  twenty  curlicornies  for  her 
headdress,  specks  on  her  eyeux,  and  spudds  on  horeilles  and  a 
circusfix  riding  her  Parisienne's  cockneze,  a  vaunt  her  straddle 
from  Equerry  Egon,  when  Tinktink  in  the  churchclose  clinked 
Steploajazzyma  Sunday,  Sola^  with  pawns,  prelates  and  pookas 
pelotting  in  her  piecebag,  for  Handiman  the  Chomp,  Esquoro, 
biskbask,  to  crush  the  slander's  head. 

Wery  weeny  wight,  plead  for  Morandmor!  Notre  Dame  de  la 
Ville^  mercy  of  thy  balmheartzyheat!  Ogrowdnyk's  beyond  her- 
bata  tay,  wort  of  the  drogist.  Bulk  him  no  bulkis.  And  let  him 
rest,  thou  wayfarre,  and  take  no  gravespoil  from  him!  Neither 
mar  his  mound!  The  bane  of  Tut  is  on  it.  Ware!  But  there's  a 
little  lady  waiting  and  her  name  is  A.L.P.  And  you'll  agree.  She 
must  be  she.  For  her  holden  heirheaps  hanging  down  her  back. 
He  spenth  his  strenth  amok  haremscarems.  Poppy  Narancy,  Gial- 
lia,  Chlora,  Marinka,  Anileen,  Parme.  And  ilk  a  those  dames  had 
her  rainbow  huemoures  yet  for  whilko  her  whims  but  he  coined  a 
cure.  TifftifF  today,  kissykissy  tonay  and  agelong  pine  tomauran- 
na.  Then  who  but  Crippled-with-Children  would  speak  up  for 
Dropping- with-Sweat? 

Sold  him  her  lease  of  ninenmeninetee^ 
Tresses  undresses  so  dyedyedaintee^ 
Goo^  the  groot  gudgeon^  gulped  it  alL 
Hoc  was  the  C.  0.  DJ 

Bum! 

I02 


At  Island  Bridge  she  met  her  tide. 
Attahom^  attahom^  attahomhomhoom! 
The  Fin  had  a  flux  and  his  Ehha  a  ride. 
Attahom^  attahom^  attahomhomhoom! 
We  re  all  up  to  the  years  in  hues  and  crihies. 
That's  what  she  s  done  for  wee! 

Woe! 

Nomad  may  roam  with  Nabuch  but  let  naaman  laugh  at  Jor- 
dan !  For  we,  we  have  taken  our  sheet  upon  her  stones  where  we 
have  hanged  our  hearts  in  her  trees;  and  we  list,  as  she  bibs  us, 
by  the  waters  of  babalong. 


103 


In  the  name  of  Annah  the  Allmaziful,  the  Everliving,  the 
Bringer  of  Plurabilities,  haloed  be  her  eve,  her  singtime  sung,  her 
rill  be  run,  unhemmed  as  it  is  uneven ! 

Her  untitled  mamafesta  memorialising  the  Mosthighest  has 
gone  by  many  names  at  disjointed  times.  Thus  we  hear  of.  The 
Augusta  Angus tissimost  for  Old  Seabeastius'  Salvation,  Rockabill 
Booby  in  the  Wave  Trough,  Here's  to  the  Relicts  of  All  Decencies^ 
Anna  Stessas  Rise  to  Notice^  Knickle  Down  Duddy  Gunne  and 
Arishe  Sir  Cannon^  My  Golden  One  and  My  Selver  Weddings 
Amoury  Treestam  and  Icy  Siseule^  Saith  a  Sawyer  til  a  Strame^  Ik 
dik  dopedope  et  tu  mihimihi^  Buy  Birthplate  for  a  Bite,  Which  of 
your  Hesterdays  Mean  Ye  to  Morra?  Hoehegunne  the  Hebrewer 
Hit  Waterman  the  Brayned,  Arcs  in  His  Ceiling  Flee  Chinx  on  the 
Flur,  Rebus  de  Hibernicis,  The  Crazier  Letters,  Groans  of  a  Briton- 
ess,  Peter  Peopler  Picked  a  Plot  to  Pitch  his  Poppolin,  An  Apology 
for  a  Big  (some  such  nonoun  as  Husband  or  husboat  or  hose- 
bound  is  probably  understood  for  we  have  also  the  plutherple- 
thoric  My  Hoonsbood  Hansbaad's  a  Journey  to  Porthergill  gone 
and  He  Never  Has  the  Hour),  Ought  We  To  Visit  Him!*  For  Ark 
see  Zoo,  Cleopaters  Nedlework  Picturing  Aldborougham  on  the 
Sahara  with  the  Coombing  of  the  Cammmels  and  the  Parlourmaids 
of  Aegypt,  Cock  in  the  Pot  for  Father,  Placeat  Vestrae,  A  New 
Cure  for  an  Old  Clap,  Where  Portentos  they'd  Grow  Gonder  how 
Vd  Wish  I  Woose  a  Geese;  Gettle  Nettie,  Thrust  him  not.  When  the 

104 


J 


Myrtles  of  Venice  Played  to  Bloccuss  Line^  To  Plenge  Me  High 
He  Waives  Chiltern  on  Friends^  Oremunds  Queue  Visits  Amen 
Marty  E'en  Tho'  I  Granny  a-be  He  would  Fain  Me  Cuddle^  Twenty 
of  Chambers,  Weighty  Ten  Beds  and  a  Wan  Ceteroom^  I  Led  the 
Life^  Through  the  Boxer  Coxer  Rising  in  the  House  with  the  Golden 
Stairs^  The  Following  Fork,  Hes  my  0' Jerusalem  and  Vm  his 
Po^  The  Best  in  the  West^  By  the  Stream  of  Zemiem  under  Zig- 
lag  Hill,  The  Man  That  Made  His  Mother  in  the  Marlborry 
Train^  Try  Our  Taal  on  a  Taub^  The  Log  of  Anny  to  the  Base 
All,  Nopper  Tipped  a  Nappiwenk  to  his  Notylytl Dantsigirls^  Prs^ss 
Orel  Orel  the  King  of  Orlhrds^^  Intimier  Minnelisp  of  an  Extor- 
reor  Monolothe^  Drink  to  Him^  My  Juckey^  and  Dhoult  Bemine 
Thy  Winnowing  Sheet,  I  Ask  You  to  Believe  I  was  his  Mistress, 
He  Can  Explain^  From  Victrolia  Nuancee  to  Allhart  Noahnsy^ 
Das  a  Daisy  so  Guimea  your  Handsel  too.  What  Barbaras  Done 
to  a  Barrel  Organ  Before  the  Rank^  Tank  and  Bonnbtail^  Huskvy 
Admortal^  What  Jumbo  made  to  Jalice  and  what  Anisette  to  Him^ 
Ophelia! s  Culpreints^  Hear  Hubty  Hublin^  My  Old  Dansh^  I  am 
Older  northe  Rogues  among  Whisht  I  Slips  and  He  Calls  Me  his 
Dual  of  Ayessha^  Suppotes  a  Ventriliquorst  Merries  a  Corpse^ 
Lapps  for  Finns  This  Funnycoons  Week,  How  the  Buckling  Shut 
at  Rush  in  January^  Look  to  the  Lady^  From  the  Rise  of  the 
Dudge  Pupublick  to  the  Fall  of  the  Potstille^  Of  the  Two  Ways 
of  Opening  the  Mouth,  I  have  not  Stopped  Water  Where  It  Should 
Flow  and  I  Know  the  Twentynine  Names  of  Attraente^  The  Tor  tor 
of  Tory  Island  Traits  Galasia  like  his  Milchcow,  From  Abbeygate 
to  Crowalley  Through  a  Lift  in  the  Lude,  Smocks  for  Their  Graces 
and  Me  Aunt  for  Them  Clodshoppers^  How  to  Pull  a  Good  Horus- 
coup  even  when  Oldsire  is  Dead  to  the  World,  Inn  the  Gleam  of 
Waherlow,  Fathe  Hes  Sukceded  to  My  Esperations^  Thee  Steps 
Forward,  Two  Stops  Back,  My  Skin  Appeals  to  Three  Senses  and 
My  Curly  Lips  Demand  Columbkisses;  Gage  Street  on  a  Cranys 
Savings^  Them  Lads  made  a  Trion  of  Battlewatschers  and  They 
Totties  a  Doeit  of  Deers^  In  My  Lord's  Bed  by  One  Whore  Went 
Through  It,  Mum  It  is  All  Over,  Cowpoyride  by  Twelve  Acre  Ter- 
riss  in  the  Unique  Estates  of  Amessican^  He  Gave  me  a  Thou  so  I 

105 


serve  Him  with  Thee,  Of  all  the  Wide  Torsos  in  all  the  Wild  Glen, 
O'Donoghj  White  Donogh,  He  s  Hue  to  Me  Cry,  I'm  the  Stitch 
in  his  Baskside  Youd  be  Nought  Without  Mom,  To  Keep  the 
Huskies  off  the  Hustings  and  Picture  Pets  from  Lifting  Shops,  Nor- 
sker  Torsker  Find  the  Poddle,  He  Perssed  Me  Here  with  the  Ardour 
of  a  Tonnohurkes^  A  Booh  Was  Weeping  This  Mower  was  Reaping^ 
O^Loughlin,  Up  from  the  Pit  of  my  Stomach  I  Swish  you  the  White 
of  the  Mournings  Inglo- Andean  Medoleys  from  Tommany  Moohr, 
The  Great  Polynesional  Entertrainer  Exhibits  Ballantine  Braut- 
chers  with  the  Link  of  Natures^  The  Mimic  of  Meg  Neg  and 
the  Mackeys,  Entered  as  the  Lastest  Pigtarial  and  My  Pooridiocal 
at  Stitchioners  Hall,  Siegfield  Follies  and  or  a  Gentlehomme  s  Faut 
Pas^  See  the  First  Book  of  Jealesies  Pessim^  The  Suspended  Sen- 
tence^ A  Pretty  Brick  Story  for  Childsiie  Heroes^  As  Lo  Our  Sleep, 
I  Knew  Vd  Got  it  in  Me  so  Thit  settles  That,  Thonderbalt  Captain 
Smeth  and  La  Belle  Sauvage  Pocahonteuse^  Way  for  Wet  Week 
Welikins  Douchka  Marianne^  The  Last  of  the  Fingallians^  It  Was 
Me  Egged  Him  on  to  the  Stork  Exchange  and  Lent  my  Dutiful 
Face  to  His  Customs^  Chee  Chee  Cheels  on  their  China  Miction^ 
Pickedmeup  Peters^  Lumptytumtumpty  had  a  Big  Fall^  Pimpimp 
Pimpimp^  Measly  Ventures  of  Two  Lice  and  the  Fall  of  Fruit, 
The  Pokes  Family  Interior^  If  my  Spreadeagles  Wasnt  so  Tight 
Pd  Loosen  my  Cursits  on  that  Bunch  of  Maggiestraps^  Allolosha 
Popofetts  and  Howke  Cotchme  Eye^  Seen  Aples  and  Thin  Dyed, 
i  big  U  to  B  cleaves  from  Love  and  Mother,  Fines  Fault  was  no 
Felon^  Exat  Delvin  Renter  Life^  The  Flash  that  Flies  from  Vuggys 
Eyes  has  Set  Me  Hair  On  Fire^  His  is  the  House  that  Malt  Made, 
Divine  Views  from  Back  to  the  Front,  Abe  to  Sare  Stood  Icyk 
Neuter  till  Brahm  Taulked  Him  Common  Sex^  A  Nibble  at  Eve 
Will  That  Bowal  Relieve,  Allfor  Guineas,  Sounds  and  Compliments 
Libidous,  Seven  Wives  Awake  Aweek^  -^i^y  -^^^  Berber  Blut^ 
Amy  Licks  Porter  While  Huffy  Chops  Eads,  Abbrace  of  Umbellas 
or  a  T ripple  of  Caines^  Buttbutterbust^  From  the  Manor  lord  Hoved 
to  the  Misses  O' Mollies  and  from  the  Dames  to  their  Sames,  Many- 
festoons  for  the  Colleagues  on  the  Green,  An  Outstanding  Back  and 
an  Excellent  Halfcentre  if  Called  on.  As  Tree  is  Quick  and  Stone  is 

1 06 


i 

I 

i 
I 


I 


I. 


] 


i 


U  ^  dx  ^ 


Whiu  So  is  My  Washing  Done  by  Night,  First  and  Last  Only 
True  Account  all  about  the  Honorary  Mirsu  Earwicker,  L.S.D., 
and  the  Snake  {Nuggets/)  by  a  Woman  of  the  World  who  only  can 
Tell  Naked  Truths  about  a  Dear  Man  and  all  his  Conspirators  how 
they  all  Tried  to  Fall  him  Putting  it  all  around  Lucaliiod  about 
Privates  Earwicker  and  a  Pair  of  Sloppy  Sluts  plainly  Showing  all 
the  Unmentionability  falsely  Accusing  about  the  Raincoats, 

The  proteiform  graph  itself  is  a  polyhedron  of  scripture. 
There  was  a  time  when  naif  alphabetters  would  have  written  it 
down  the  tracing  of  a  purely  deliquescent  recidivist,  possibly 
ambidextrous,  snubnosed  probably  and  presenting  a  strangely 
profound  rainbowl  in  his  (or  her)  occiput.  To  the  hardily  curio- 
sing  entomophilust  then  it  has  shown  a  very  sexmosaic  of  nym- 
phosis  in  which  the  eternal  chimerahunter  Oriolopos,  now  frond 
of  sugars,  then  lief  of  saults,  the  sensory j:rowd  in  his  belly  X 
coupled  with  an  eye  for  the  goods  trooth  bewilderblissed  by 
their  night  effluvia  with  guns  like  drums  and  fondlers  like  forceps 
persequestellates  his  vanessas  from  flore  to  flore.  Somehows  this 
sounds  like  the  purest  kidooleyoon  wherein  our  mademacerution 
of  lour  lore  is  rich.  All's  so  herou  from  us  him  in  a  kitchernott 
darkness,  by  hasard  and  worn  rolls  arered,  we  must  grope  on  till 
Zerogh  hour  like  pou  owl  giaours  as  we  are  would  we  salve  aught 
of  moments  for  our  aysore  today.  Amousin  though  not  but.  Closer 
inspection  of  the  bordereau  would  reveal  a  multiplicity  of  person- 
alities inflicted  on  the  documents  or  document  and  some  prevision 
of  virtual  crime  or  crimes  might  be  made  by  anyone  unwary 
enough  before  any  suitable  occasion  for  it  or  them  had  so  far 
managed  to  happen  along.  In  fact,  under  the  closed  eyes  of  the  in- 
spectors the  traits  featuring  the  chiaroscuro  coalesce,  their  con- 
trarieties eliminated,  in  one  stable  somebody  similarly  as  by  the 
providential  warring  of  heartshaker  with  housebreaker  and  of 
dramdrinker  against  freethinker  our  social  something  bowls  along 
bumpily,  experiencing  a  jolting  series  of  prearranged  disappoint- 
ments, down  the  long  lane  of  (it's  as  semper  as  oxhousehumper!) 
generations,  more  generations  and  still  more  generations. 

Say,  baroun  lousadoor,  who  in  hallhagal  wrote  the  durn  thing 

107 


anyhow?  Erect,  beseated,  mountback,  against  a  partywall,  below 
freezigrade,  by  the  use  of  quill  or  style,  with  turbid  or  pellucid 
mind,  accompanied  or  the  reverse  by  mastication,  interrupted 
by  visit  of  seer  to  scribe  or  of  scribe  to  site,  atwixt  two  showers 
or  atosst  of  a  trike,  rained  upon  or  blown  around,  by  a  right- 
down  regular  racer  from  the  soil  or  by  a  too  pained  whittlewit 
laden  with  the  loot  of  learning? 

Now,  patience;  and  remember  patience  is  the  great  thing,  and 
above  all  things  else  we  must  avoid  anything  like  being  or  be- 
coming out  of  patience.  A  good  plan  used  by  worried  business 
folk  who  may  not  have  had  many  momentums  to  master  Kung's 
doctrine  of  the  meang  or  the  propriety  codestruces  of  Carpri- 
mustimus  is  just  to  think  of  all  the  sinking  fund  of  patience  pos- 
sessed in  their  conjoint  names  by  both  brothers  Bruce  with  whom 
are  incorporated  their  Scotch  spider  and  Elberfeld's  Calculating 
Horses.  If  after  years  upon  years  of  delving  in  ditches  dark  one 
tubthumper  more  than  others,  Kinihoun  or  Kahanan,  giardarner 
or  mear  measenmanonger,  has  got  up  for  the  darnall  same  pur- 
pose of  reassuring  us  with  all  the  barbar  of  the  Carrageehouse 
that  our  great  ascendant  was  properly  speaking  three  syllables 
less  than  his  own  surname  (yes,  yes,  less!),  that  the  ear  of  Fionn 
Earwicker  aforetime  was  the  trademark  of  a  broadcaster  with 
wicker  local  jargon  for  an  ace's  patent  (Hear!  Calls!  Everywhair!) 
then  as  to  this  radiooscillating  epiepistle  to  which,  cotton,  silk  or 
samite,  kohol,  gall  or  brickdust,  we  must  ceaselessly  return,  where- 
abouts exactly  at  present  in  Siam,  Hell  or  Tophet  under  that 
glorisol  which  plays  touraloup  with  us  in  this  Aludin's  Cove  of 
our  cagacity  is  that  bright  soandsuch  to  slip  us  the  dinkum  oil? 

Naysayers  we  know.  To  conclude  purely  negatively  from  the 
positive  absence  of  political  odia  and  monetary  requests  that  its 
page  cannot  ever  have  been  a  penproduct  of  a  man  or  woman  of 
that  period  or  those  parts  is  only  one  more  unlookedfor  conclu- 
sion leaped  at,  being  tantamount  to  inferring  from  the  nonpre- 
sence  of  inverted  commas  (sometimes  called  quotation  marks) 
on  any  page  that  its  author  was  always  constitutionally  incapable 
of  misappropriating  the  spoken  words  of  others. 

io8 


4' 


Luckily  there  is  another  cant  to  the  questy.  Has  any  fellow,  of 
the  dime  a  dozen  type,  it  might  with  some  profit  some  dull  even- 
ing quietly  be  hinted  —  has  any  usual  sort  of  ornery  josser,  flat- 
chested  fortyish,  faintly  flatulent  and  given  to  ratiocination  by  t  v 
syncopation  in  the  elucidation  of  complications,  of  his  greatest 
Fung  Yang  dynasdescendanced,  only  another  the  son  of,  in  fact, 
ever^looked  sufficiently  longly  at  a  quite  everydaylooldng  stamped 
addressed  envelope?  Admittedly  it  is  an  outer  husk:  its  face,  in 
all  its  featureful  perfection  of  imperfection,  is  its  fortune:  it  ex- 
hibits only  the  civil  or  military  clothing  of  whatever  passion- 
pallid  nudity  or  plaguepurple  nakedness  may  happen  to  tuck  it- 
self under  its  flap.  Yet  to  concentrate  solely  on  the  literal  sense  or  ^  3 
even  the  psychological  content  of  any  document  to  the  sore 
neglect  of  the  enveloping  facts  themselves  circumstantiating  it  is 
just  as  hurtful  to  sound  sense  (and  let  it  be  added  to  the  truest  j 
taste)  as  were  some  fellow  in  the  act  of  perhaps  getting  an  intro 
from  another  fellow  turning  out  to  be  a  friend  in  need  of  his,  say, 
to  a  lady  of  the  latter's  acquaintance,  engaged  in  performing  the 
elaborative  antecistral  ceremony  of  upstheres,  straightaway  to  run 
off*  and  vision  her  plump  and  plain  in  her  natural  altogether,  pre- 
ferring to  close  his  blinkhard's  eyes  to  the  ethiquethical  fact  that 
she  was,  after  all,  wearing  for  the  space  of  the  time  being  some 
definite  articles  of  evolutionary  clothing,  inharmonious  creations, 
a  captious  critic  might  describe  them  as,  or  not  strictly  necessary 
or  a  trifle  irritating  here  and  there,  but  for  all  that  suddenly  full 
of  local  colour  and  personal  perfume  and  suggestive,  too,  of  so 
very  much  more  and  capable  of  being  stretched,  filled  out,  if  need 
or  wish  were,  of  having  their  surprisingly  Uke  coincidental  parts 
separated  don't  they  now,  for  better  survey  by  the  deft  hand  of 
an  expert,  don't  you  know?  Who  in  his  heart  doubts  either  that~^ 
the  facts  of  feminine  clothiering  are  there  all  the  time  or  that  the 
feminine  fiction,  stranger  than  the  facts,  is  there  also  at  the  same 
time,  only  a  little  to  the  rere?  Or  that  one  may  be  separated  from 
the  other?  Or  that  both  may  then  be  contemplated  simultaneously? 
Or  that  each  may  be  taken  up  and  considered  in  turn  apart  from 
the  other?  _j 

109 


A''  ■ 


Here  let  a  few  artifacts  fend  in  their  own  favour.  The  river  felt 
^  she  wanted  salt.  That  was  just  where  Brien  came  in.  The  country- 
asked  for  bearspaw  for  dindin !  And  boundin  aboundin  it  got  it 
surly.  We  who  live  under  heaven,  we  of  the  clovery  kingdom, 
we  middlesins  people  have  often  watched  the  sky  overreaching 
the  land.  We  suddenly  have.  Our  isle  is  Sainge.  The  place.  That 
^  stern  chuckler  Mayhappy  Mayhapnot,  once  said  to  repeation 

in  that  lutran  conservatory  way  of  his  that  Isitachapel-Asitalukin 
was  the  one  place,  ult  aut  nult^  in  this  madh  vaal  of  tares  (whose 
verdhure's  yellowed  therever  Phaiton  parks  his  car  while  its 
tamelised  tay  is  the  drame  of  Drainophilias)  where  the  possible 
was  the  improbable  and  the  improbable  the  inevitable.  If  the  pro- 
verbial bishop  of  our  holy  and  undivided  with  this  me  ken  or  no 
f^\.<^^'  me  ken  Zot  is  the  Quiztune  havvernjgshed  had  his  twoe  nails 
^  on  the  head  we  are  in  for  a  sequentiality_  of  improbable  possibles 
though  possibly  nobody  after  having  grubbed  up  a  lock  of  cwold 
cworn  aboove  his  subject  probably  in  Harrystotalies  or  the  vivle 
will  go  out  of  his  way  to  applaud  him  on  the  onboiassed  back  of 
his  remark  for  utterly  impossible  as  are  all  these  events  they  are 
probably  as  like  those  which  may  have  taken  place  as  any  others 
which  never  took  person  at  all  are  ever  likely  to  be.  Ahahn! 

About  that  originaLhen.  Midwinter  (frujir  or  kuur?)  was  in  the 
offing  and  Premver  a  promise  of  a  pril  when,  as  kischabrigies  sang 
life's  old  sahatsong,  an  iceclad  shiverer,  merest  of  bantlings  ob- 
/  served  a  cold  fowl  behaviourising  strangely  on  that  fatal  midden 
or  chip  factory  or  comicalbottomed  copsjute  (dump  for  short) 
afterwards  changed  into  the  orangery  when  in  the  course  of 
deeper  demolition  unexpectedly  one  bushman's  holiday  its  limon 
threw  up  a  few  spontaneous  fragments  of  orangepeel,  the  last 
remains  of  an  outdoor  meal  by  some  unknown  sunseeker  or  place- 
hider  illico  way  back  in  his  mistridden  past.  What  child  of  a  strand- 
/jiK^"^^  looper  but  keepy  little  Kevin  in  the  despondful  surrounding  of 
such  sneezing  cold  would  ever  have  trouved  up  on  a  strate  that 
was  called  strete  a  motive  for  future  saintity  by  euchring  the 
finding  of  the  Ardagh  chalice  by  another  heily  innocent  and 
beachwalker  whilst  trying  with  pious  clamour  to  wheedle  Tip- 

iio 


,0 


5  y  /  ^v^^>-^ 


\ 

I 

■ 


t^'^-^^  fCc^  5t>  "TVjl  ^C<r^  AJ_fiAAi  yvA^w 


r  * 

peraw  raw  raw  reeraw  puteters  out  of  Now  Sealand  in  spignt 
of  the  patchpurple  of  the  massacre,  a  dual  a  duel  to  die  to 
day,  goddam  and  biggod,  sticks  and  stanks,  of  most  of  the 
Jacobiters. 

The  bird  in  the  case  was  Bdgjda  of  the  Dorans,  a  more  than 
quinquegintarian  (Terziis  prize  with  Serni  medal,  Cheepalizzy's 
Hane  Exposition)  and  what  she  was  scratching  at  the  hour  of 
klokking  twelve  looked  for  all  this  zogzag  world  like  a  goodish- 
sized  sheet  of  letterpaper  originating  by  transhipt  from  Boston 
(Mass.)  of  the  last  of  the  first  to  Dear  whom  it  proceded  to 
mention  Maggy  well  &  allathome's  health  well  only  the  hate 
turned  the  mild  on  the  van  Houtens  and  the  general's  elections 
with  a  lovely  face  of  some  born  gentleman  with  a  beautiful  present 
of  wedding  cakes  for  dear  thankyou  Chriesty  and  with  grand 
funferall  of  poor  Father  Michael  don't  forget  unto  life's  &  Muggy 
well  how  are  you  Maggy  &:  hopes  soon  to  hear  well  &  must  now 
close  it  with  fondest  to  the  twoinns  with  four  crosskisses  for  holy 
paul  holey  corner  holipoli  whollyisland  pee  ess  from  (locust  may 
eat  all  but  this  sign  shall  they  never)  affectionate  largelooking 
tache  of  tch.  The  stain,  and  that  a  teastain  (the  overcautelousness  ^ 
of  the  masterbilker  here,  as  usual,  signing  the  page  away),  marked 
it  off  on  the  spout  of  the  moment  as  a  genuine  relique  of  ancient 
Irish  pleasant  pottery  of  that  lydialike  languishing  class  known  as 
a  hurry-me-o'er-the-hazy.  it^€7o%'     ~^  '^^i:^^ 

Why  then  how?  fi-^^^^ 
Well,  almost  any  photgist  worth  his  chemicots  will  tip  anyone  U  ^ 
asking  him  the  teaser  that  if  a  negative  of  a  horse  happens  to  melt 
enough  while  drying,  well,  what  you  do  get  is,  well,  a  positively 
grotesquely  distorted  macromass  of  all  sorts  of  horsehappy  values 
and  masses  of  meltwhile  horse.  Tip.  Well,  this  freely  is  what 
must  have  occurred  to  our  missive  (there's  a  sod  of  a  turb  for 
you!  please  wisp  off  the  grass!)  unhlthed  from  the  boucher  by 
the  sagacity  of  a  lookmelittle  likemelong  hen.  Heated  residence 
in  the  heart  of  the  qrangeflavoured  mudmound  had  partly  ob- 
literated the  negative  to  start  with,  causing  some  features  pal- 
pably nearer  your  pecker  to  be  swollen  up  most  grossly  while 

III 


the  farther  back  we  manage  to  wiggle  the  more  we  need  the  loan 
of  a  lens  to  see  as  much  as  the  hen  saw.  Tip. 

You  is  feeling  like  you  was  lost  in  the  bush,  boy.^  You  says: 
It  is  a  puling  sample  jungle  of  woods.  You  most  shouts  out: 
Bethicket  me  for  a  stump  of  a  beech  if  I  have  the  poultriest  no- 
tions what  the  farest  he  all  means.  Gee  up,  girly!  The  quad  gos- 
pellers may  own  the  targum  but  any  of  the  Zingari  shoolerim 
may  pick  a  peck  of  kindlings  yet  from  the  sack  of  auld  hensyne. 

Lead,  kindly  fowl!  They  always  did:  ask  the  ages.  What  bird- 
has  done  yesterday  man  may  do  next  year,  be  it  fly,  be  it  moult, 
be  it  hatch,  be  it  agreement  in  the  nest.  For  her  socioscientific 
sense  is  sound  as  a  bell,  sir,  her  volucrine  automutativeness  right 
on  normalcy:  she  knows,  she  just  feels  she  was  kind  of  born  to 
lay  and  love  eggs  (trust  her  to  propagate  the  species  and  hoosh 
her  fluff  balls  safe  through  din  and  danger!);  lastly  but  mostly,  in 
her  genesic  field  it  is  all  game  and  no  gammon;  she  is  ladylike  in 
everything  she  does  and  plays  the  gentleman's  part  every  time. 
Let  us  auspice  it!  Yes,  before  all  this  has  time  to  end  the  golden 
age  must  return  with  its  vengeance.  Man  will  become  dirjgible. 
Ague  will  be  rejuvenated,  woman  with  her  ridiculous  white  bur- 
den will  reach  by  one  step  sublime  incubation,  the  manewanting 
human  lioness  with  her  dishorned  discipular  manram  will  lie 
down  together  publicly  flank  upon  fleece.  No,  assuredly,  they  are 
not  justified,  those  gloompourers  who  grouse  that  letters  have 
never  been  quite  their  old  selves  again  since  that  weird  weekday 
in  bleak  Janiveer  (yet  how  palmy  date  in  a  waste's  oasis!)  when 
to  the  shock  of  both,  Biddy  Doran  looked  at  literature. 

And.  She  may  be  a  mere  marcella,  this  midget  madgetcy, 
Misthress  of  Arths.  But.  It  is  not  a  hear  or  say  of  some  anomo- 
rous  letter,  signed  Toga  GiriHs,  (teasy  dear).  We  have  a  cop  of 
her  fist  right  against  our  nosibos.  We  note  the  paper  with  her 
jotty  young  watermark:  Notre  Dame  du  Bon  Marche,  And  she 
has  a  heart  of  Arin!  What  lumililts  as  she  fols  with  her  falli- 
mineers  and  her  nadianods.  As  a  strow  will  shaw  she  does  the 
wind  blague,  recting  to  show  the  rudess  of  a  robur  curling  and 
shewing  the  fansaties  of  a  frizette.  But  how  many  of  her  readers 

112 


^^^^^ 


/ 


5r 


realise  that  she  is  not  out  to  dizzledazzle  with  a  graith  uncouthre- 
ment  of  postmantuam  glasseries  from  the  lapins  and  the  grigs. 
Nuttings  on  her  wilelife!  Grabar  gooden  grandy  for  old  almea- 
nium  adamologists  like  Dariaumaurius  and  Zovotrimaserov- 
meravmerouvian;  (dmzn!);  she  feel  plain  plate  one  flat  fact  thing 
and  if,  lastways  firdstwise,  a  man  alones  sine  anyon  anyons 
utharas  has  no  rates  to  done  a  kik  at  with  anyon  anakars  about 
tutus  milking  fores  and  the  rereres  on  the  outerrand  asikin  the 
tutus  to  be  forrarder.  Thingcrooklyexineverypasturesixdix -. 
likencehimaroundhersthemaggerbykinkinkankanwithdownmind- 
lookingated.  Mesdaims,  Marmouselles,  Mescerfs!  Silvapais!  All 
schwants  (schwrites)  ischt  tell  the  cock's  trootabout  him.  Ka- 
pak  kapuk.  No  minzies  matter.  He  had  to  see  life  foully  the  ^ 
plak  and  the  smut,  (schwrites).  There  were  three  men  in  him 
(schwrites).  Dancings  (schwrites)  was  his  only  ttoo  feebles. 
With  apple  harlottes.  And  a  little  mollvogels.  Spissially  (schwrites)  ^  ^ 
when  they  peaches.  Honeys  wore  camelia  paints.  Yours  very 
truthful.  Add  dapple  inn.  Yet  is  it  but  an  old  story,  the  tale  of 
a  Treestone  with  one  Ysold,  of  a  Mons  held  by  tentpegs  and  his 
pal  whathploosed  on  the  run,  what  Cadman  could  but  Badman 
wouldn't,  any  Genoaman  against  any  Venis,  and  why  Kate  takes 
cjiarge  of  the  waxworks.  .  . 

Let  us  now,  weather,  health,  dangers,  public  orders  and  other 
circumstances  permitting,  of  perfectly  convenient,  if  you  police, 
after  you,  policepolice,  pardoning  mein,  ich  beam  so  fresch,  bey? 
drop  this  jiggerypokery  and  talk  straight  turkey  meet  to  mate,  for 
while  the  ear,  be  we  mikealls  or  nicholists,  may  sometimes  be  in- 
clined to  believe  others  the  eye,  whether  browned  or  nolensed, 
And  it  devilish  hard  now  and  again  even  to  believe  itself.  Habes 
aures  et  num  videbisF  Habes  oculos  ac  mannepalpabuat?  Tip  1  Draw- 
ing nearer  to  take  our  slant  at  it  (since  after  all  it  has  met  with 
misfortune  while  all  underground),  let  us  see  all  there  may  remain 
to  be  seen. 

I  am  a  worker,  a  tombstone  mason,  anxious  to  pleace  avery- 
buries  and  jully  glad  when  Christmas  comes  his  once  ayear.  You 
are  a  poorjoist,  unctuous  to  polise  nopebobbies  and  tunnibelly 

