was  lithe  and  pleasable.  Wilt  thou  the  lee?  Wilt  thou  the  hee? 
Wilt  thou  the  hussif ? 

—  The  quicker  the  deef  the  safter  the  sapstaff,  but  the  main 
the  mightier  the  Strieker  the  strait.  To  the  vast  go  the  game!  It 
is  the  circumconversioning  of  antelithual  paganelles  by  a  hugger- 
knut  cramwell  energuman,  or  the  caecodedition  of  an  absque- 
litteris  puttagonnianne  to  the  herreraism  of  a  cabotinesque  ex- 
ploser? 

—  I  believe  you.  Taiptope  reelly,  O  reelly! 

—  Nautaey,  nautaey,  we're  nowhere  without  ye !  In  steam  of 
kavos  now  arbatos  above  our  hearths  doth  hum.  And  Malkos 
crackles  logs  of  fun  while  Anglys  cheers  our  ingles.  So  lent  she 
him  ear  to  burrow  his  manhood  (or  so  it  appierce)  and  borrow 
his  namas?  Suilful  eyes  and  sallowfoul  hairweed  and  the  sickly 
sigh  from  her  gingering  mouth  like  a  Dublin  bar  in  the  moarning. 

—  Primus  auriforasd  me. 

—  The  park  is  gracer  than  the  hole,  says  she,  but  shekleton's 
my  fortune? 

—  Eversought  of  being  artained?  You've  soft  a  say  with  ye, 
Flatter  O'Ford,  that,  honey,  I  hurdley  chew  you. 

—  Is  that  answers? 

—  It  am  queery! 

—  The  house  was  Toot  and  Come-Inn  by  the  bridge  called 
Tiltass,  but  are  you  solarly  salemly  sure,  beyond  the  shatter  of 
the  canicular  year?  Nascitur  ordo  seculi  numfit. 


I 


i 


I 


—  Siriusly  and  selenely  sure  behind  the  shutter.  Securius  indicat 
umhris  tellurem. 

—  Date  as?  Your  time  of  immersion?  We  are  still  in  drought 
of.  .  .  ? 

—  Amnis  Dominae,  Marcus  of  Corrig.  A  laughin  hunter  and 
Purty  Sue. 

—  And  crazyheaded  Jorn,  the  bulweh  born? 

—  Fluteful  as  his  orkan.  Ex  ugola  lenonem, 

—  And  Jambs,  of  Delphin's  Bourne  or  (as  olders  lay)  of 
Tophat? 

—  Dawncing  the  kniejinksky  choreopiscopally  like  an  easter 
sun  round  the  colander,  the  vice!  Taranta  boontoday!  You 
should  pree  him  prance  the  polcat,  you  whould  sniff  him  wops 
around,  you  should  hear  his  piedigrotts  schraying  as  his  skimpies 
skirp  a  .  .  . 

—  Crashedafar  Corumbas!  A  Czardanser  indeed!  Dervilish 
glad  too.  Ortovito  semi  ricordo.  The  pantaglionic  affection 
through  his  blood  like  a  bad  influenza  in  a  leap  at  bounding 
point? 

—  Out  of  Prisky  Poppagenua,  the  palsied  old  priamite,  home 
from  Edwin  Hamilton's  Christmas  pantaloonade,  Oropos  Roxy 
and  Pantharhea  at  the  Gaiety,  trippudiating  round  the  aria,  with 
his  fiftytwo  heirs  of  age!  They  may  reel  at  his  likes  but  it's  Noeh 
Bonum's  shin  do. 

—  And  whit  what  was  Lillabil  Issabil  maideve,  maid  at? 

—  Trists  and  thranes  and  trinies  and  traines. 

—  A  take  back  to  the  virgin  page,  darm  it! 

—  Ay,  graunt  ye. 

—  The  quobus  quartet  were  there  too,  if  I  mistake  not,  as  a 
sideline  but,  pace  the  contempt  of  senate,  well  to  the  fore,  in  an 
amenessy  meeting,  metandmorefussed  to  decide  whereagainwhen 
to  meet  themselves,  flopsome  and  jerksome,  lubber  and  deliric, 
drinking  unsteadily  through  the  Kerry  quadrilles  and  Listowel 
lancers  and  mastersinging  always  with  that  consecutive  fifth  of 
theirs,  eh?  Like  four  wise  elephants  inandouting  under  a  twelve- 
podestalled  table? 

513 


—  They  were  simple  scandalmongers,  that  familiar,  and  all! 
Normand,  Desmond,  Osmund  and  Kenneth.  Making  mejical 
history  all  over  the  show! 

—  In  sum,  some  hum?  And  other  marrage  feats? 

—  All  our  stakes  they  were  astumbling  round  the  ranky  roars 
assumbling  when  Big  Arthur  flugged  the  field  at  Annie's  courting. 

—  Suddenly  some  wellfired  clay  was  cast  out  through  the 
schappsteckers  of  hoy's  house? 

—  Schottenly  there  was  a  hellfire  club  kicked  out  through  the 
wasistas  of  Thereswhere. 

—  Like  Heavystost's  envil  catacalamitumbling.  Three  days 
three  times  into  the  Vulcuum? 

—  Punch! 

—  Or  Noe  et  Ecclesiastes,  nonne? 

—  Ninny,  there  is  no  hay  in  Eccles's  hostel. 

—  Yet  an  I  saw  a  sign  of  him,  if  you  could  scrape  out  his 
acquinntence?  Name  or  redress  him  and  we'll  call  it  a  night! 

—  .i..'.  .0..1. 

—  You  are  sure  it  was  not  a  shuler's  shakeup  or  a  plighter's 
palming  or  a  winker's  wake  etcaetera  etcaeterorum  you  were  at? 

—  Precisely. 

—  Mayhap.  Hora  pro  Nubis,  Thundersday,  at  A  Little  Bit  Of 
Heaven  Howth,  the  wife  of  Deimetuus  (D'amn),  Earl  Adam  Fitz- 
adam,  of  a  Tartar  (Birtha)  or  Sackville-Lawry  and  Morland- 
West,  at  the  Auspice  for  the  Living,  Bonnybrook,  by  the  river 
and  A.  Briggs  Carlisle,  guardian  of  the  birdsmaids  and  deputil- 
iser  for  groom.  Pontifical  mess.  Or  (soddenly)  Schott,  furtivfired 
by  the  riots.  No  flies.  Agreest? 

—  Mayhem.  Also  loans  through  the  post.  With  or  without 
security.  Everywhere.  Any  amount.  Mofsovitz,  swampstakers, 
purely  providential. 

—  Flood's.  The  pinkman,  the  squeeze,  the  pint  with  the  kick. 
Gaa.  And  then  the  punch  to  Gaelicise  it.  Fox.  The  lady  with  the 
lamp.  The  boy  in  the  barleybag.  The  old  man  on  his  ars.  Great 
Scrapp!  'Tis  we  and  you  and  ye  and  me  and  hymns  and  hurts  and 
heels  and  shields.  The  eirest  race,  the  ourest  nation,  the  airest  place 

5M 


r 


that  erestationed.  He  was  culping  for  penance  while  you  were 
ringing  his  belle.  Did  the  kickee,  goodman  rued  fox,  say  anything 
important?  Clam  or  cram,  spick  or  spat? 

—  No  more  than  Richman's  periwhelker. 

—  Nnn  ttt  wrd? 

—  Dmn  ttt  thg. 

—  A  gael  galled  by  scheme  of  scorn?  Nock? 

—  Sangnifying  nothing.  Mock! 

—  Fortitudo  eius  rhodammum  tenuit? 

—  Five  maim!  Or  something  very  similar. 

—  I  should  like  to  euphonise  that.  It  sounds  an  isochronism. 
Secret  speech  Hazelton  and  obviously  disemvowelled.  But  it  is 
good  laylaw  too.  We  may  take  those  wellmeant  kicks  for  free 
granted,  though  ultra  viresy  void  and,  in  fact,  unnecessarily  so. 
Happily  you  were  not  quite  so  successful  in  the  process  verbal 
whereby  you  would  sublimate  your  blepharospasmockical  sup- 
pressions, it  seems? 

—  What  was  that?  First  I  heard  about  it. 

—  Were  you  or  were  you  not?  Ask  yourself  the  answer,  Fm 
not  giving  you  a  short  question.  Now,  not  to  mix  up,  cast  your 
eyes  around  Capel  Court.  I  want  you,  witness  of  this  epic  struggle, 
as  yours  so  mine,  to  reconstruct  for  us,  as  briefly  as  you  can,  in- 
exactly the  same  as  a  mind's  eye  view,  how  these  funeral  games, 
which  have  been  poring  over  us  through  homer's  kerryer  pid- 
geons,  massacreedoed  as  the  holiname  rally  round  took  place. 

—  Which?  Sure  I  told  you  that  afoul.  I  was  drunk  all  lost  life. 

—  Well,  tell  it  to  me  befair,  the  whole  plan  of  campaign,  in 
that  bamboozelem  mincethrill  voice  of  yours.  Let's  have  it, 
christie!  The  Dublin  own,  the  thrice  familiar. 

—  Ah,  sure,  I  eyewitless  foggus.  'Tis  all  around  me  bebatters- 
bid  hat. 

—  Ah,  go  on  now,  Masta  Bones,  a  gig  for  a  gag,  with  your 
impendements  and  your  perroqtriques !  Blank  memory  of  hatless 
darky  in  blued  suit.  You  were  ever  the  gentle  poet,  dove  from 
Haywarden.  Pitcher  cup,  patcher  cap,  pratey  man?  Be  nice  about 
it,  Bones  Minor!  Look  chairful!  Come,  delicacy!  Go  to  the  end, 

515 


thou  slackerd!  Once  upon  a  grass  and  a  hopping  high  grass  it 
was. 

—  Faith,  then,  Meesta  Cheeryman,  first  he  come  up,  a  gag 
as  a  gig,  badgeler's  rake  to  the  town's  major  from  the  wesz, 
MacSmashall  Swingy  of  the  Cattelaxes,  got  up  regardless,  with 
a  cock  on  the  Kildare  side  of  his  Tattersull,  in  his  riddlesneek's 
ragamufflers  and  the  horrid  contrivance  as  seen  above,  whisklyng 
into  a  bone  tolerably  delicately,  the  Wearing  of  the  Blue^  and  taking 
off  his  plushkwadded  bugsby  in  his  perusual  flea  and  loisy  man- 
ner, saying  good  mrowkas  to  weevilybolly  and  dragging  his  feet 
in  the  usual  course  and  was  ever  so  terribly  naas,  really,  telling 
him  clean  his  nagles  and  fex  himself  up.  Miles,  and  so  on  and  so 
fort,  and  to  take  the  coocoomb  to  his  grizzlies  and  who  done 
that  foxy  freak  on  his  bear's  hairs  like  fire  bursting  out  of  the 
Ump  pyre  and,  half  hang  me,  sirr,  if  he  wasn't  wanting  his 
calicub  body  back  before  he'd  to  take  his  life  or  so  save  his  life. 
Then,  begor,  counting  as  many  as  eleven  to  thritytwo  seconds 
with  his  pocket  browning,  like  I  said,  wann  swanns  wann,  this  is 
my  awethorrorty,  he  kept  forecursing  hascupth's  foul  Fanden, 
Cogan,  for  coaccoackey  the  key  of  John  Dunn's  field  fore  it  was 
for  sent  and  the  way  Montague  was  robbed  and  wolfling  to 
know  all  what  went  off  and  who  burned  the  hay,  perchance  wilt 
thoult  say,  before  he'd  kill  all  the  kanes  and  the  price  of  Patsch 
Purcell's  faketotem,  which  the  man,  his  plantagonist,  up  from  the 
bog  of  the  depths  who  was  raging  with  the  thirst  of  the  sacred 
sponge  and  who,  as  a  mashter  of  pasht,  so  far  as  him  was  con- 
cerned, was  only  standing  there  nonplush  to  the  corner  of  Turbot 
Street,  perplexing  about  a  paumpshop  and  pupparing  to  spit, 
wanting  to  know  whelp  the  henconvention's  compuss  memphis 
he  wanted  with  him  new  nothing  about. 

—  A  sarsencruxer,  like  the  Nap  O'  Farrell  Patter  Tandy  moor 
and  burgess  medley.'^  In  other  words,  was  that  how  in  the  annusual 
curse  of  things,  as  complement  to  compliment  though,  after  a 
manner  of  men  which  I  must  and  will  say  seems  extraordinary, 
their  celicolar  subtler  angelic  warfare  or  photoplay  finister 
started.'^ 

5i<5 


ft 


1' 


I 


—  Truly.  That  I  may  never! 

—  Did  one  scum  then  in  the  auradrama,  the  deff,  after  some 
clever  play  in  the  mud,  mention  to  the  other  undesirable,  a 
dumm,  during  diverse  intentional  instants,  that  upon  the  resume 
after  the  angerus,  how  for  his  deal  he  was  a  pigheaded  Swede  and 
to  wend  himself  to  a  medicis? 

—  To  be  sore  he  did,  the  huggornut!  Only  it  was  turnip- 
hudded  dunce,  I  beg  your  pardon,  and  he  would  jokes  bowlder- 
blow  the  betholder  with  his  black  masket  off  the  bawling  green. 

—  Sublime  was  the  warning! 

—  The  author,  in  fact,  was  mardred. 

—  Did  he,  the  first  spikesman,  do  anything  to  him,  the  last 
spokesman,  when,  after  heaving  some  more  smutt  and  chaff 
between  them,  they  rolled  togutter  into  the  ditch  together.'^ 
Black  Pig's  Dyke.;^ 

—  No,  he  had  his  teeth  in  the  back  of  his  head. 

—  Did  Box  then  try  to  shine  his  puss.^ 

—  No  but  Cox  did  to  shin  the  punman. 

—  The  worsted  crying  that  if  never  he  looked  on  Leaverhol- 
ma's  again  and  the  bester  huing  that  he  might  ever  save  sunlife.'^ 

—  Trulytruly  Asbestos  he  ever.  And  sowasso  I  never. 

—  That  forte  carlysle  touch  breaking  the  campdens  pianoback. 

—  Pansh! 

—  Are  you  of  my  meaning  that  would  be  going  on  to  about 
half  noon,  click  o'clock,  pip  emma^  Grinwicker  time,  by  your 
querqcut  quadrant.^ 

—  You  will  be  asking  me  and  I  wish  to  higgins  you  wouldn't. 
Would  it^ 

—  Let  it  be  twelve  thirty  after  a  somersautch  of  the  tardest! 

—  And  it  was  eleven  thirsty  too  befour  in  soandsuch^reloyon  it! 

—  Tick  up  on  time.  Howday  you  doom.^  That  rising  day 
sinks  rosing  in  a  night  of  nine  week's  wonder. 

—  Amties,  marcy  buckup !  The  uneven  day  of  the  unleventh 
month  of  the  unevented  year.  At  mart  in  mass. 

—  A  triduum  before  Our  Larry's  own  day.  By  which  of  your 
chronos,my  man  of  four  watches,  larboard,  starboard,  dog  or  dath.'^ 


—  Dunsink,  rugby,  ballast  and  ball.  You  can  imagine. 

—  Language  this  allsfare  for  the  loathe  of  Marses  ambiviolent 
about  it.  Will  you  swear  all  the  same  you  saw  their  shadows  a 
hundred  foot  later,  struggling  diabolically  over  this,  that  and 
the  other,  their  virtues  pro  and  his  principality  con,  near  the 
Ruins,  Drogheda  Street,  and  kicking  up  the  devil's  own  dust 
for  the  Milesian  wind.'^ 

—  I  will.  I  did.  They  were.  I  swear.  Like  the  heavenly  militia. 
So  wreck  me  GhyllyguUy !  With  my  tongue  through  my  toecap  on 
the  headlong  stone  of  kismet  if  so  'tis  the  will  of  Whose  B.  Dunn. 

—  Weepin  Lorcans!  They  must  have  put  in  some  wonderful 
work,  ecad,  on  the  quiet  like,  during  this  arms'  parley,  meatierities 
forces  vegateareans.  Dost  thou  not  think  so.'^ 

-Ay.  _ 

—  The  illegallooking  range  or  fender,  alias  turfing  iron,  a 
product  of  Hostages  and  Co,  Engineers,  changed  feet  several 
times  as  briars  revalvered  during  the  weaponswap.^  PifF.'^ 

—  Puff!  Excuse  yourself.  It  was  an  ersatz  lottheringcan. 

—  They  did  not  know  the  war  was  over  and  were  only  bere- 
belling  or  bereppelling  one  another  by  chance  or  necessity  with 
sham  bottles,  mere  and  woiney,  as  betwinst  Picturshirts  and 
Scutticules,  like  their  caractacurs  in  an  Irish  Ruman  to  sorowbrate 
the  expeltsion  of  the  Danos.'^  What  sayest  thou,  scusascmerul.'^ 

—  That's  all.  For  he  was  heavily  upright  man,  Limba  romena 
in  Bucclis  tucsada.  Farcing  gutterish.     •  ),  n 

—  I  mean  the  Morgans  and  the  Dorans,  in  finnish.'^ 

—  I  know  you  don't,  in  Feeney's. 

—  The  mujic  of  the  footure  on  the  barbarihams  of  the  bashed.'^ 
Co  Canniley.'^ 

—  Da  Donnuley. 

—  Yet  this  war  has  meed  peace .'^  In  vovna  viritas.  Ah  chaos  lex, 
neat  wehr? 

—  O  bella!  O  pia!  O  pura!  Amem.  Handwalled  amokst  us. 
Thanksbeer  to  Balbus! 

—  All  the  same  you  sound  it  twould  clang  houlish  like  Hull 
hopen  for  christmians.'^ 

518 


—  But  twill  cling  hellish  like  engels  opened  to  neuropeans,  if 
you've  sensed,  whole  the  sum.  So  be  vigil! 

—  And  this  pattern  pootsch  punnermine  of  concoon  and 
proprey  went  on,  hog  and  minne,  a  whole  whake,  your  night  after 
larry's  night,  spittinspite  on  Dora  O'Huggins,  Ormonde  caught 
butler,  the  artillery  of  the  O'Hefferns  answering  the  cavalry  of  the 
MacClouds,  fortey  and  more  fortey,  a  thousand  and  one  times, 
according  to  your  cock  and  a  biddy  story?  Lludillongi,  for  years 
and  years  perhaps? 

—  That's  ri.  This  is  his  largos  life,  this  is  me  timtomtum  and 
this  is  her  two  peekweeny  ones.  From  the  last  finger  on  the 
second  foot  of  the  fourth  man  to  the  first  one  on  the  last  one  of 
the  first.  That's  right. 

—  Finny.  Vary  vary  finny! 

—  It  may  look  funny  but  fere  it  is. 

—  This  is  not  guid  enough,  Mr  Brasslattin.  Finging  and  tong- 
ing  and  winging  and  ponging!  And  all  your  rally  and  ramp  and 
rant!  Didget  think  I  was  asleep  at  the  wheel?  D'yu  mean  to  tall 
grand  jurors  of  thathens  of  tharctic  on  your  oath,  me  lad,  and 
ask  us  to  believe  you,  for  all  you're  enduring  long  terms,  with 
yur  last  foot  foremouthst,  that  yur  moon  was  shining  on  the 
tors  and  on  the  cresties  and  winblowing  night  after  night,  for 
years  and  years  perhaps,  after  you  swearing  to  it  a  while  back 
before  your  Corth  examiner,  Markwalther,  that  there  was  reen 
in  planty  all  the  teem? 

—  Perhaps  so,  as  you  grand  duly  affirm,  Robman  Calvinic. 
I  never  thought  over  it,  faith.  I  most  certainly  think  so  about  it. 
I  hope.  Unless  it  is  actionable.  It  would  be  a  charity  for  me  to 
think  about  something  which  I  must  on  no  caste  accounts  omit, 
if  you  ask  to  me.  It  was  told  me  as  an  inspired  statement  by  a 
friend  of  myself,  in  reply  to  salute,  Tarpey,  after  three  o'clock 
mass,  with  forty  ducks  indulgent,  that  some  rain  was  promised 
to  Mrs  Lyons,  the  invalid  of  Aunt  Tarty  Villa,  with  lots  gulp 
and  sousers  and  likewise  he  told  me,  the  recusant,  after  telling 
mass,  with  two  hundred  genuflexions,  at  the  split  hour  of 
blight  when  bars  are  keeping  so  sly,  as  was  what's  follows.  He 

519 


is  doing  a  walk,  says  she,  in  the  feelmick's  park,  says  he,  like 
a  tarrable  Turk,  says  she,  letting  loose  on  his  nursery  and, 
begalla,  he  meet  himself  with  Mr  Michael  Clery  of  a  Tuesday 
who  said  Father  MacGregor  was  desperate  to  the  bad  place  about 
thassbawls  and  ejaculating  about  all  the  stairrods  and  the  cats- 
pew  swashing  his  earwanker  and  thinconvenience  being  locked 
up  for  months,  owing  to  being  putrenised  by  stragglers  abusing 
the  apparatus,  and  for  Tarpey  to  pull  himself  into  his  soup  and 
fish  and  to  push  on  his  borrowsaloaner  and  to  go  to  the  tumple 
like  greased  lining  and  see  Father  MacGregor  and,  be  Cad,  sir,  he 
was  to  pipe  up  and  saluate  that  clergyman  and  to  tell  his  holiness 
the  whole  goat's  throat  about  the  three  shillings  in  the  confusional 
and  to  say  how  Mrs  Lyons,  the  cuptosser,  was  the  infidel  who 
prophessised  to  pose  three  shielings  Peter's  pelf  off  her  tocher 
from  paraguais  and  albs  by  the  yard  to  Mr  Martin  Clery  for 
Father  Mathew  to  put  up  a  midnight  mask  saints  withins  of  a 
Thrushday  for  African  man  and  to  let  Brown  child  do  and  to  leave 
he  Anlone  and  all  the  nuisances  committed  by  soldats  and  non- 
behavers  and  missbelovers  for  N.D.  de  TEcluse  to  send  more 
heehaw  hell's  flutes,  my  prodder  again!  And  I  never  brought  my 
cads  in  togs  blanket!  Foueh! 

—  Angly  as  arrows,  but  you  have  right,  my  celtslinger!  Nils, 
Mugn  and  Cannut.  Should  brothers  be  for  awe  then? 

—  So  let  use  off  be  octo  while  oil  bike  the  bil  and  wheel 
whang  till  wabblin  befoul  you  but  mere  and  mire  trullopes  will 
knaver  mate  a  game  on  the  bibby  bobby  burns  of. 

—  Quatsch !  What  hill  ar  yu  fluking  about,  ye  lamelookond 
fyats!  I'll  discipline  ye!  Will  you  swear  or  affirm  the  day  to  yur 
second  sight  noo  and  recant  that  all  yu  affirmed  to  profetised  at 
first  sight  for  his  southerly  accent  was  all  paddyflaherty?  Will 
ye,  ay  or  nay? 

—  Ay  say  aye.  I  affirmly  swear  to  it  that  it  rooly  and  cooly 
boolyhooly  was  with  my  holyhagionous  lips  continuously  poised 
upon  the  rubricated  annuals  of  saint  ulstar. 

—  That's  very  guid  of  ye,  R.C.!  Maybe  yu  wouldn't  mind 
tailing  us,  my  labrose  lad,  how  very  much  bright  cabbage  or 

520 


paperming  comfirts  d'yu  draw  for  all  yur  swearin?  The  spanglers, 
kiddy? 

—  Rootha  prootha.  There  you  have  me!  Vurry  nothing,  O 
potators,  I  call  it  for  I  might  as  well  tell  yous  Essexelcy,  and  I 
am  not  swallowing  my  air,  the  Golden  Bridge's  truth.  It  amounts 
to  nada  in  pounds  or  pence.  Not  a  glass  of  Lucan  nor  as  much  as 
the  cost  price  of  a  highlandman's  trousertree  or  the  three  crowns 
round  your  draphole  (isn't  it  dram  disgusting?)  for  the  whole 
dumb  plodding  thing! 

—  Come  now,  Johnny!  We  weren't  born  yesterday.  Pro  tanto 
quid  retrihuamus?  I  ask  you  to  say  on  your  scotty  pictail  you 
were  promised  fines  times  with  some  stagger  juice  or  deadhorse, 
on  strip  or  in  larges,  at  the  Raven  and  Sugarloaf,  either  Jones's 
lame  or  Jamesy's  gait,  anyhow? 

—  Bushmillah!  Do  you  think  for  a  moment?  Yes,  by  the  way. 
How  very  necessarily  true!  Give  me  fair  play.  When? 

—  At  the  Dove  and  Raven  tavern,  no,  ah?  To  wit  your  wiz- 
zend? 

—  Water,  water,  darty  water!  Up  Jubilee  sod!  Beet  peat  wheat 
treat! 

—  What  harm  wants  but  demands  it!  How  would  you  like  to 
hear  yur  right  name  now,  Ghazi  Power,  my  tristy  minstrel,  if 
yur  not  freckened  of  frank  comment? 

—  Not  afrightened  of  Frank  Annybody's  gaspower  or  ill- 
conditioned  ulcers  neither. 

—  Your  uncles ! 

—  Your  gullet! 

—  Will  you  repeat  that  to  me  outside,  leinconnmuns? 

—  After  you've  shouted  a  few?  I  will  when  it  suits  me, 
hulstler. 

—  Guid!  We  make  fight!  Three  to  one!  Raddy? 

—  But  no,  from  exemple,  Emania  Raffaroo !  What  do  you 
have?  What  mean  you,  august  one?  Fairplay  for  Finnians !  I  will 
have  my  humours.  Sure,  you  would  not  do  the  cowardly  thing 
and  moll  me  roon?  Tell  Queen's  road  I  am  seilling.  Farewell, 
but  whenever!  Buy! 

521 


—  Ef  I  chuse  to  put  a  bullet  like  yu  through  the  grill  for 
heckling  what  business  is  that  of  yours,  yu  bullock? 

—  I  don't  know,  sir.  Don't  ask  me,  your  honour! 

—  Gently,  gently  Northern  Ire!  Love  that  red  hand!  Let  me 
once  more.  There  are  sordidly  tales  within  tales,  you  clearly 
understand  that?  Now  my  other  point.  Did  you  know,  whether 
by  melanodactylism  or  purely  libationally,  that  one  of  these  two 
Crimeans  with  the  fender,  the  taller  man,  was  accused  of  a  cer- 
tain offence  or  of  a  choice  of  two  serious  charges,  as  skirts  were 
divided  on  the  subject,  if  you  like  it  better  that  way?  You  did, 
you  rogue,  you? 

—  You  hear  things.  Besides  (and  serially  now)  bushes  have 
eyes,  don't  forget.  Hah! 

—  Which  moral  turpitude  would  you  select  of  the  two,  for 
choice,  if  you  had  your  way?  Playing  bull  before  shebears  or  the 
hindlegs  off  a  clotheshorse?  Did  any  orangepeelers  or  green- 
goaters  appear  periodically  up  your  sylvan  family  tree? 

—  Buggered  if  I  know!  It  all  depends  on  how  much  family 
silver  you  want  for  a  nass-and-pair.  Hah! 

—  What  do  you  mean,  sir,  behind  your  hah!  You  don't  hah 
to  do  thah,  you  know,  snapograph. 

—  Nothing,  sir.  Only  a  bone  moving  into  place.  Blotogaff. 
Hahah! 

—  Whahat? 

—  Are  you  to  have  all  the  pleasure  quizzing  on  me?  I  didn't 
say  it  aloud,  sir.  I  have  something  inside  of  me  talking  to  myself. 

—  You're  a  nice  third  degree  witness,  faith!  But  this  is  no 
laughing  matter.  Do  you  think  we  are  tonedeafs  in  our  noses  to 
boot?  Can  you  not  distinguish  the  sense,  prain,  from  the  sound, 
bray?  You  have  homosexual  catheis  of  empathy  between  narcis- 
sism of  the  expert  and  steatopygic  invertedness.  Get  yourself 
psychoanolised ! 

—  O,  begor,  I  want  no  expert  nursis  symaphy  from  yours 
broons  quadroons  and  I  can  psoakoonaloose  myself  any  time  I 
want  (the  fog  follow  you  all !)  without  your  interferences  or  any 
other  pigeonstealer. 

522 


%  6,  ^ 

—  Sample!  Sample! 

—  Have  you  ever  weflected,  wepowtew,  that  the  evil  what 
though  it  was  willed  might  nevewtheless  lead  somehow  on  to 
good  towawd  the  genewality? 

—  A  pwopwo  of  haster  meets  waster  and  talking  of  plebiscites 
by  a  show  of  hands,  whether  declaratory  or  effective,  in  all 
seriousness,  has  it  become  to  dawn  in  you  yet  that  the  deponent, 
thejnan  from  Saint  Yves^  may  have  been  (one  is  reluctant  to  use 
the„  passive  voiced)  may  be  been  as  much  sinned  against  as  sin- 
ning, for  if  we  look  at  it  verbally  perhaps  there  is  no  true  noun  in 
active  nature  where  every  bally  being  —  please  read  this  mufto 
—  is  becoming  in  its  owntown  eyeballs.  Now  the  long  form  and 
the  strong  form  and  reform  alltogether! 

—  Hotchkiss  Culthur's  Ej^errea;dy,  one  brother  to  never- 
reached,  well  over  countless  hands,  sieur  of  many  winners  and 
losers,  groomed  by  S.  Samson  and  son,  bred  by  dilalahs,  will 
stand  at  Bay  (Dublin)  from  nun  till  dan  and  vites  inversion  and 
at  Miss  or  Mrs's  MacMannigan's  Yard. 

—  Perhaps  you  can  explain,  sagobean.'^  The  Mod  needs  a 
rebus. 

—  Pro  general  continuation  and  in  particular  explication  to 
your  singular  interrogation  our  asseveralation.  Ladiegent,  pals 
will  smile  but  me  and  Frisky  Shorty,  my  inmate  friend,  as  is  un- 
common struck  on^oplar  poetry,  and  a  few  fleabesides  round  at 
West  Pauper  Bosquet,  was  glad  to  be  back  again  with  the  chaps 
