out  of  his  decentsoort  hat,  looking  still  more  like  his  purseyful 
namesake  as  men  of  Gaul  noted,  but  before  of  to  sputabout,  the 

43 


snowycrested  curl  amoist  the  leader's  wild  and  moulting  hair, 
'Ductor'  Hitchcock  hoisted  his  fezzy  fuzz  at  bludgeon's  height 
signum  to  his  companions  of  the  chalice  for  the  Loud  Fellow, 
boys'  and  silentium  in  curia/  (our  maypole  once  more  where  he  rose 
of  old)  and  the  canto  was  chantied  there  chorussed  and  christened 
where  by  the  old  tollgate.  Saint  Annona's  Street  and  Church. 

And  around  the  lawn  the  rann  it  rann  and  this  is  the  rann  that 
Hosty  made.  Spoken.  Boyles  and  Cahills,  Skerretts  and  Pritchards, 
viersified  and  piersified  may  the  treeth  we  tale  of  live  in  stoney. 
Here  line  the  refrains  of.  Some  vote  him  Vike,  some  mote  him 
Mike,  some  dub  him  Llyn  and  Phin  while  others  hail  him  Lug 
Bug  Dan  Lop,  Lex,  Lax,  Gunne  or  Guinn.  Some  apt  him  Arth, 
some  bapt  him  Earth,  Coll,  Noll,  Soil,  Will,  Weel,  Wall  but  I 
parse  him  Persse  O'Reilly  else  he's  called  no  name  at  all.  To- 
gether. Arrah,  leave  it  to  Hosty,  frosty  Hosty,  leave  it  to  Hosty 
for  he's  the  mann  to  rhyme  the  rann,  the  rann,  the  rann,  the  king 
of  all  ranns.  Have  you  here.'^  (Some  ha)  Have  we  where.'*  (Some 
hant)  Have  you  hered.^  (Others  do)  Have  we  whered.'*  (Others  dont) 
'7 'It's  cumming,  it's  brumming!  The  clip,  the  clop!  (All  cla)  Glass 
crash.  The  (klikkaklakkaklaskaklopatzklatschabattacreppycrotty- 
graddaghsemmihsammihnouithappluddyappladdypkonpkot!). 

[Ardite^  arditi! 

iMusic 


cue. 


"  The  Ballad  of  Persse  O'Reilly." 


Have  ijoa  heard,  of  one  Hiunp  -  ty  Dump-tij         how  he 


fell  with  a  roll  and  a    ram  ble     and  curled   uj>  like  Lord  O-la-Jxt 


Ma^ '  a  -  zine  Wall         Hump,  hel-tnet    and     all  DaCLjn 


Crum  ple  btj  the      butt   of  the  Maj-a-zine     Wall  of  the 


44 


Have  you  heard  of  one  Humpty  Dumpty 
How  he  fell  with  a  roll  and  a  rumble 
And  curled  up  like  Lord  Olofa  Crumple 
By  the  butt  of  the  Magazine  Wall, 
(Chorus)  Of  the  Magazine  Wall, 
Hump,  helmet  and  all? 

He  was  one  time  our  King  of  the  Castle  \  ^ 

Now  he's  kicked  about  like  a  rotten  old  parsnip. 
And  from  Green  street  he'll  be  sent  by  order  of  His  Worship 
To  the  penal  jail  of  Mountjoy 

(Chorus)  To  the  jail  of  Mount] oy!  ^  ,>^ 

Jail  him  and  joy. 

He  was  fafafather  of  all  schemes  for  to  bother  us  ^ 
Slow  coaches  and  immaculate  contraceptives  for  the  populace, 
Mare's  milk  for  the  sick,  seven  dry  Sundays  a  week, 
Openair  love  and  religion's  reform, 
(Chorus)  And  religious  reform, 
Hideous  in  form. 


Arrah,  why,  says  you,  couldn't  he  manage  it.'^ 
I'll  go  bail,  my  fine  dairyman  darling. 
Like  the  bumping  bull  of  the  Cassidys 
All  your  butter  is  in  your  horns. 

(Chorus)  His  butter  is  in  his  horns. 
Butter  his  horns ! 

(Repeat)  Hurrah  there,  Hosty,  frosty  Hosty,  change  that  shirt 

[on  ye. 

Rhyme  the  rann,  the  king  of  all  ranns! 

Balbaccio^  halbuccio! 
We  had  chaw  chaw  chops,  chairs,  chewing  gum,  the  chicken- 

[pox  and  china  chambers 
Universally  provided  by  this  soffsoaping  salesman. 

45 


Small  wonder  He'll  Cheat  E'erawan  our  local  lads  nicknamed  him 
When  Chimpden  first  took  the  floor 

(Chorus)  "With  his  bucketshop  store 
Down  Bargain weg,  Lower. 

So  snug  he  was  in  his  hotel  premises  sumptuous 
But  soon  we'll  bonfire  all  his  trash,  tricks  and  trumpery 
And'tis  short  till  sheriff  Clancy'll  be  winding  up  his  unlimited 

[company 

With  the  bailiff's  bom  at  the  door, 
(Chorus)  Bimbam  at  the  door. 

Then  he'll  bum  no  more. 
Sweet  bad  luck  on  the  waves  washed  to  our  island 
The  hooker  of  that  hammerfast  viking  pO^  - 

And  Gall's  curse  on  the  day  when  Eblana  bay  f 
Saw  his  black  and  tan  man-o'-war. 
(Chorus)  Saw  his  man-o'-war. 

On  the  harbour  bar. 

Where  from?  roars  Poolbeg.  Cookingha'pence,  he  bawls  Donnez- 

[moi  scampitle,  wick  an  wipin'fampiny 
Fingal  Mac  Oscar  Onesine  Bargearse  Boniface 
Thok's  min  gammelhole  Norveegickers  moniker 
Og  as  ay  are  at  gammelhore  Norveegickers  cod. 
(Chorus)  A  Norwegian  camel  old  cod. 
He  is,  begod. 

Lift  it,  Hosty,  lift  it,  ye  devil  ye!  up  with  the  rann,  the  rhyming 

[rann ! 

It  was  during  some  fresh  water  garden  pumping 

Or,  according  to  the  Nursing  Mirror,  while  admiring  the  mon- 

[keys 

That  our  heavyweight  heathen  Humpharey 
Made  bold  a  maid  to  woo 

(Chorus)  Woohoo,  what'll  she  doo! 

The  general  lost  her  maidenloo! 
46 


1% 


J.  i^-^ 


He  ought  to  blush  for  himself,  the  old  hayheaded  philosopher, 
For  to  go  and  shove  himself  that  way  on  top  of  her. 
Begob,  he's  the  crux  of  the  catalogue  \  /) 
Of  our  antediluvial  zoo, 

(Chorus)  Messrs.  Billing  and  Coo. 

Noah's  larks,  good  as  noo. 

He  was  joulting  by  Wellinton's  monument  j 
Our  rotorious  hippopopotamuns 

When  some  bugger  let  down  the  backtrap  of  the  omnibus 
And  he  caught  his  death  of  fusiliers,  — - — ~  ^  knij^y  ^k^^tir^  e/^ 
(Chorus)  With  his  rent  in  his  rears. 
Give  him  six  years. 

'Tis  sore  pity  for  his  innocent  poor  children 
But  look  out  for  his  missus  legitimate! 
When  that  frew  gets  a  grip  of  old  Earwicker 
Won't  there  be  earwigs  on  the  green.'^ 
(Chorus)  Big  earwigs  on  the  green. 

The  largest  ever  you  seen.  -t^<^ 

Suffoclose!  Shikespower!  Seudodanto!  Anonymoses! 

Then  we'll  have  a  free  trade  Gaels'  band  and  mass  meeting  ^  ^^^^ 

For  to  sod  the  brave  son  of  Scandiknavery.  ^ 
And  we'll  bury  him  down  in  Oxmanstown 
Along  with  the  devil  and  Danes,  viv^^v^ 
(Chorus)  With  the  deaf  and  dumb  Danes, 
And  all  their  remains. 

And  not  all  the  king's  men  nor  his  horses 
Will  resurrect  his  corpus 

For  there's  no  true  spell  in  Connacht  or  hell  ^^^^v  v^-^^^'^  '^^ 


(bis)  That's  able  to  raise  a  Cain.  — - — '         _  > 


47 


Chest  Cee!  'Sdense!  Corpo  di  barragio!  you  spoof  of  visibility 
in  a  freakfog,  of  mixed  sex  cases  among  goats,  hill  cat  and  plain 
mousey,  Bigamy  Bob  and  his  old  Shanvocht!  The  Blackfriars 
treacle  plaster  outrage  be  liddled !  Therewith  was  released  in  that 
kingsrick  of  Humidia  a  poisoning  volume  of  cloud  barrage  indeed. 
Yet  all  they  who  heard  or  redelivered  are  now  with  that  family 
of  bards  and  Vergobretas  himself  and  the  crowd  of  Caraculacticors 
as  much  no  more  a^  be  they  not  yet  now  or  had  they  then  not- 
ever  been.  Canbe  in  some  future  we  shall  presently  here  amid 
those  zouave  players  of  Inkermann  the  rnime  mumming  the  mick 
and  his  nick  miming  their  maggies,  Hilton  St  Just  (Mr  Frank 
Smith),  Ivanne  Ste  Austelle  (Mr  J.  F.  Jones),  Coleman  of  Lucan 
taking  four  parts,  a  choir  of  the  O'Daley  O'Doyles  doublesixing 
the  chorus  in  Fenn  Mac  Call  and  the  Serven  Feeries  of  Loch  Neach^ 
Galloper  Troppler  and  Hurleyquinn  the  zitherer  of  the  past  with  his 
merrymen  all,  zimzim,  zimzim.  Of  the  persins  sin  this  Eyrawyg- 
gla  saga  (which,  thorough  readable  to  int  from  and,  is  from  tubb 
to  buttom  all  falsetissues,  antilibellous  and  nonactionable  and  this 
applies  to  its  whole  wholume)  of  poor  Osti-Fosti,  described  as 
quite  a  musical  genius  in  a  small  way  and  the  owner  of  an 
exceedingly  niced  ear,  with  tenorist  voice  to  match,  not  alone, 
but  a  very  major  poet  of  the  poorly  meritary  order  (he  began 
Tuonisonian  but  worked  his  passage  up  as  far  as  the  we-all- 
hang-together  Animandovites)  no  one  end  is  known.  If  they 

48 


whistled  him  before  he  had  curtains  up  they  are  whistling  him 
still  after  his  curtain's  doom's  doom.  Eifii.  His  husband,  poor  old 
A'Hara  (Okaroff?)  crestfallen  by  things  and  down  at  heels  at  the 
time,  they  squeak,  accepted  the  (Zassnoch!)  ardree's  shilling  at 
the  conclusion  of  the  Crimean  war  and,  having  flown  his  wild 
geese,  alohned  in  crowds  to  warnder  on  like  Shuley  Luney, 
enlisted  in  Tyrone's  horse,  the  Irish  whites,  and  soldiered  a  bit 
with  Wolsey  under  the  assumed  name  of  Blanco  Fusilovna  Buck- 
lovitch  (spurious)  after  which  the  cawer  and  the  marble  halls 
of  Pump  Court  Columbarium,  the  home  of  the  old  seakings, 
looked  upon  each  other  and  queth  their  haven  evermore  for  it 
transpires  that  on  the  other  side  of  the  water  it  came  about  that  on 
the  field  of  Vasileff's  Cornix  inauspiciously  with  his  unit  he 
perished,  saying,  this  papal  leafless  to  old  chap  give,  rawl  chaw- 
clates  for  mouther-in-louth.  Booil.  Poor  old  dear  Paul  Horan, 
to  satisfy  his  literary  as  well  as  his  criminal  aspirations,  at  the 
suggestion  thrown  out  by  the  doomster  in  loquacity  lunacy,  so 
says  the  Dublin  Intelligence,  was  thrown  into  a  Ridley's  for 
inmates  in  the  northern  counties.  Under  the  name  of  Orani  he 
may  have  been  the  utility  man  of  the  troupe  capable  of  sustain- 
ing long  parts  at  short  notice.  He  was.  Sordid  Sam,  a  dour  decent 
deblancer,  the  unwashed,  haunted  always  by  his  ham,  the  unwished, 
at  a  word  from  Israfel  the  Summoner,  passed  away  painlessly 
after  life's  upsomdowns  one  hallowe'en  night,  ebbrous  and  in 
the  state  of  nature,  propelled  from  Behind  into  the  great  Beyond 
by  footblows  coulinclouted  upon  his  oyster  and  atlas  on  behanged 
and  behooved  and  behicked  and  behulked  of  his  last  fishandblood 
bedscrappers,  a  Northwegian  and  his  mate  of  the  Sheawolving 
class.  Though  the  last  straw  glimt  his  baring  this  stage  thunkhard 
is  said  (the  pitfallen  gagged  him  as  'Promptboxer')  to  have 
solemnly  said  —  as  had  the  brief  thot  but  fell  in  till  his  head  like 
a  bass  dropt  neck  fust  in  till  a  bung  crate  (cogged!):  Me  drames, 
O'Loughlins,  has  come  through!  Now  let  the  centuple  celves  of 
my  egourge  as  Micholas  de  Cusack  calls  them,  —  of  all  of  whose 
I  in  my  hereinafter  of  course  by  recourse  demission  me  —  by 
the  coincidance  of  their  contraries  reamalgamerge  in  that  indentity 

49 


of  undiscernibles  where  the  Baxters  and  the  Fleshmans  may 
they  cease  to  bidivil  uns  and  (but  at  this  poingt  though  the  iron 
thrust  of  his  cockspurt  start  might  have  prepared  us  we  are  well- 
nigh  stinkpotthered  by  the  mustardpunge  in  the  tailend)  this 
outandin  brown  candlestock  melt  Nolan's  into  peese!  Han  var. 
Disliken  as  he  was  to  druriodrama,  her  wife  Langley,  the  prophet, 
and  the  decentest  dozendest  short  of  a  frusker  whoever  stuck  his 
spickle  through  his  spoke,  disappeared,  (in  which  toodooing  he 
has  taken  all  the  French  leaves  unveilable  out  of  Calomne- 
quiller's  Pravities)  from  the  sourface  of  this  earth,  that  austral 
plain  he  had  transmaried  himself  to,  so  entirely  spoorlessly  (the 
mother  of  the  book  with  a  dustwhisk  tabularasing  his  obliteration 
done  upon  her  involucrum)  as  to  tickle  the  speculative  to  all  but 
opine  (since  the  Levey  who  might  have  been  Langley  may  have 
really  been  a  redivivus  of  paganinism  or  a  volunteer  Vousden) 
that  the  hobo  (who  possessed  a  large  amount  of  the  humoresque) 
had  transtuled  his  funster's  latitat  to  its  finsterest  interrimost.  Bhi 
she.  Again,  if  Father  San  Browne,  tea  and  toaster  to  that  quaint- 
esttest  of  yarnspinners  is  Padre  Don  Bruno,  treu  and  troster  to 
the  queen  of  lar-Spain,  was  the  reverend,  the  sodality  director, 
that  eupeptic  viceflayer,  a  barefaced  carmelite,  to  whose  palpi- 
tating pulpit  (which  of  us  but  remembers  the  rarevalent  and 
hornerable  Fratomistor  Nawlanmore  and  Brawne.)  sinning  society 
sirens  (see  the  [Roman  Catholic]  presspassim)  fortunately  became 
so  enthusiastically  attached  and  was  an  objectionable  ass  who  very 
occasionally  cockaded  a  raffles  ticket  on  his  hat  which  he  wore  all 
to  one  side  like  the  hangle  of  his  pan  (if  Her  Elegance  saw  him 
she'd  have  the  canary!)  and  was  semiprivately  convicted  of  mal- 
practices with  his  hotwashed  tableknife  (glossing  over  the  cark 
in  his  pocket)  that  same  snob  of  the  dunhill,  fully  several  year- 
schaums  riper,  encountered  by  the  General  on  that  redletter 
morning  or  maynoon  jovesday  and  were  they?  Fuitfuit. 

When  Phishlin  Phil  wants  throws  his  lip  'tis  pholly  to  be  fortune 
flonting  and  whoever's  gone  to  mix  Hotel  by  the  salt  say  water 
there's  nix  to  nothing  we  can  do  for  he's  never  again  to  sea.  It 
is  nebuless  an  autodidact  fact  of  the  commonest  that  the  shape  of 

50 


I 


tile  average  human  cloudyphiz,  whereas  sallow  has  long  daze 
faded,  frequently  altered  its  ego  with  the  possing  of  the  showers 
(Not  original!).  Whence  it  is  a  slopperish  matter,  given  the  wet 
and  low  visibility  (since  in  this  scherzarade  of  one's  thousand  one 
nightinesses  that  sword  of  certainty  which  would  indentifide  the 
body  never  falls)  to  idendifine  the  individuone  in  scratch  wig, 
squarecuts,  stock  lavaleer,  regattable  oxeter,  baggy  pants  and 
shufflers  (he  is  often  alluded  to  as  Slypatrick,  the  Had  in  the  llane) 
with  already  an  incipience  (lust!)  in  the  direction  of  area  baldness 
(one  is  continually  firstmeeting  with  odd  sorts  of  others  at  all 
sorts  of  ages!)  who  was  asked  by  free  boardschool  shirkers  in 
drenched  coats  overawall,  Will,  Conn  and  Otto,  to  tell  them 
overagait.  Vol,  Pov  and  Dev,  that  fishabed  ghoatstory  of  the 
haardly  creditable  edventyres  of  the  Haberdasher,  the  two  Cur- 
chies  and  the  three  Enkelchums  in  their  Bearskin  ghoats!  Girles 
and  jongers,  but  he  has  changed  alok  syne  Thorkill's  time!  Ya,  da, 
tra,  gathery,  pimp,  shesses,  shossafat,  okodeboko,  nine!  Those 
many  warts,  those  slummy  patches,  halfsinster  wrinkles,  (what 
has  come  over  the  face  on  wholebroader  E?),  and  (shrine  of 
Mount  Mu  save  us!)  the  large  fungopark  he  has  grown!  Drink! 

Sport's  a  common  thing.  It  was  the  Lord's  own  day  for  damp 
(to  wait  for  a  postponed  regatta's  eventualising  is  not  of  Battlecock 
Shettledore  -  Juxta  -  Mare  only)  and  the  request  for  a  fully 
armed  explanation  was  put  (in  Loo  of  Pat)  to  the  porty  (a  native 
of  the  sisterisle  —  Meathman  or  Meccan.'*  —  by  his  brogue,  ex- 
race  eyes,  lokil  calour  and  lucal  odour  which  are  said  to  have 
been  average  clownturkish  (though  the  capelist's  voiced  nasal 
liquids  and  the  way  he  sneezed  at  zees  haul  us  back  to  the  craogs 
and  bryns  of  the  Silurian  Ordovices)  who,  the  lesser  pilgrimage 
accomplished,  had  made,  pats'  and  pigs'  older  inselt,  the  south- 
east bluffs  of  the  stranger  stepshore,  a  regifugium  persecutorurriy 
hence  hindquarters)  as  he  paused  at  evenchime  for  some  or  so 
minutes  (hit  the  pipe,  dannyboy!  Time  to  won,  barmon.  I'll  take 
ten  to  win.)  amid  the  devil's  one  duldrum  (Apple  by  her  blossom 
window  and  Charlotte  at  her  toss  panomancy  his  sole  admirers, 
his  only  tearts  in  store)  for  a  fragrend  culubosh  during  his  week- 

51 


end  pastime  of  executing  with  Anny  Oakley  deadliness  (the  con- 
summatory  pairs  of  provocatives,  of  which  remained  provokingly 
but  two,  the  ones  he  fell  for,  Lili  and  Tutu,  cork  em!)  empties 
which  had  not  very  long  before  contained  Reid's  family  (you  ruad 
that  before,  soaky,  but  all  the  bottles  in  sodemd  histry  will  not 
soften  your  bloodathirst!)  stout.  Having  reprimed  his  repeater 
and  resiteroomed  his  timespiece  His  Revenances,  with  still  a  life 
or  two  to  spare  for  the  space  of  his  occupancy  of  a  world  at  a  time, 
rose  to  his  feet  and  there,  far  from  Tolkaheim,  in  a  quiet  English 
garden  (commonplace!),  since  known  as  Whiddington  Wild,  his 
simple  intensive  curolent  vocality,  my  dearbraithers,  my  most 
dearbrathairs,  as  he,  so  is  a  supper  as  is  a  sipper,  spake  of  the 
One  and  told  of  the  Compassionate,  called  up  before  the  triad  of 
precoxious  scaremakers  (scoretaking:  Spegulo  ne  helpas  al  mal- 
bellulo,  Mi  Kredas  ke  vi  estas  prava.  Via  dote  la  vizago  rispondas 
fraulino)  the  now  to  ushere  mythical  habiliments  of  Our  Farfar 
and  Arthor  of  our  doyne. 

Television  kills  telephony  in  brothers'  broil.  Our  eyes  de- 
mand their  turn.  Let  them  be  seen!  And  wolf  bone  balefires  blaze 
the  trailmost  if  only  that  Mary  Nothing  may  burst  her  bibby 
buckshee.  When  they  set  fire  then  she's  got  to  glow  so  we  may 
stand  some  chances  of  warming  to  what  every  soorkabatcha, 
tum  or  hum,  would  like  to  know.  The  first  Humphrey's  latitu- 
dinous  baver  with  puggaree  behind,  (calaboose  belong  bigboss 
belong  Kang  the  Toll)  his  fourinhand  bow,  his  elbaroom  surtout, 
the  refaced  unmansionables  of  gingerine  hue,  the  state  slate 
umbrella,  his  gruff  woolselywellesly  with  the  finndrinn  knopfs 
and  the  gauntlet  upon  the  hand  which  in  an  hour  not  for  him 
solely  evil  had  struck  down  the  might  he  mighthavebeen  d'Est- 
erre  of  whom  his  nation  seemed  almost  already  to  be  about  to 
have  need.  Then,  stealing  his  thunder,  but  in  the  befitting  le- 
gomena  of  the  smaller  country,  (probable  words,  possibly  said,  of 
field  family  gleaming)  a  bit  duskish  and  flavoured  with  a  smile, 
seein  as  ow  his  thoughts  consisted  chiefly  of  the  cheerio,  he  aptly 
sketched  for  our  soontobe  second  parents  (sukand  see  whybe!) 
the  touching  seene.  The  solence  of  that  stilling!  Here  one  might 

52 


a  fin  fell.  Boomster  rombombonant !  It  scenes  like  a  landescape 
from  Wildu  Picturescu  or  some  seem  on  some  dimb  Arras,  dumb 
as  Mum's  mutyness,  this  mimage  of  the  seventyseventh  kusin  of 
kristansen  is  odable  to  os  across  the  wineless  Ere  no  oedor  nor 
mere  eerie  nor  liss  potent  of  suggestion  than  in  the  tales  of  the 
tingmount.  (Prigged!) 

And  there  oftafter,  jauntyjogging,  on  an  Irish  visavis,  instea- 
dily  with  shoulder  to  shoulder  Jehu  will  tell  to  Christianier,  saint 
to  sage,  the  humphriad  of  that  fall  and  rise  while  daisy  winks  at 
her  pinker  sister  among  the  tussocks  and  the  copoll  between  the 
shafts  mocks  the  couple  on  the  car.  And  as  your  who  may  look 
like  how  on  the  owther  side  of  his  big  belttry  your  tyrs  and  does 
your  noes  and  paradigm  maymay  rererise  in  eren.  Follow  we  up 
his  whip  vindicative.  Thurston's!  Lo  behold!  La  arhoro^  lo 
petrusu.  The  augustan  peacebetothem  oaks,  the  monolith  rising 
stark  from  the  moonlit  pinebarren.  In  all  fortitudinous  ajaxious 
rowdinoisy  tenuacity.  The  angelus  hour  with  ditchers  bent  upon 
their  farm  usetensiles,  the  soft  belling  of  the  fallow  deers  {doereh- 
moose  genuanef)  advertising  their  milky  approach  as  midnight 
was  striking  the  hours  (letate!\  and  how  brightly  the  great  tri- 
bune outed  the  sharkskin  smokewallet  (imitation!)  from  his 
frock,  kippers,  and  by  Joshua,  he  tips  un  a  topping  swank 
cheroot,  none  of  your  swellish  soide,  quoit  the  reverse,  and  how 
manfally  he  says,  pluk  to  pluk  and  lekan  for  lukan,  he  was  to  just 
pluggy  well  suck  that  brown  boyo,  my  son,  and  spend  a  whole 
half  hour  in  Havana.  Sorer  of  the  kreeksmen,  would  not  thore  be 
old  high  gothsprogue !  Wherefore  he  met  Master,  he  mean  to  say, 
he  do,  sire,  bester  of  redpublicans,  at  Eagle  Cock  Hostel  on 
Lorenzo  Tooley  street  and  how  he  wished  his  Honour  the  ban- 
nocks of  Gort  and  Morya  and  Bri  Head  and  Puddyrick,  yore 
Loudship,  and  a  starchboxsitting  in  the  pit  of  his  St  Tomach's, 
—  a  strange  wish  for  you,  my  friend,  and  it  would  poleaxe  your 
sonson's  grandson  utterly  though  your  own  old  sweatandswear 
floruerunts  heaved  it  hoch  many  as  the  times,  when  they  were 
turrified  by  the  hitz. 

Chee  chee  cheers  for  Upkingbilly  and  crow  cru  cramwells 

53 


Downaboo!  Hup,  boys,  and  hat  him!  See!  Oilbeam  they're  lost 
we've  found  rerembrandtsers,  their  hours  to  date  link  these  heirs 
to  here  but  wowhere  are  those  yours  of  Yestersdays?  Farseeinge- 
therich  and  Poolaulwoman  Charachthercuss  and  his  Ann  van 
Vogt.  D.e.e.d!  Edned,  ended  or  sleeping  soundlessly?  Favour 
with  your  tongues!  Intenditef 

Any  dog's  life  you  list  you  may  still  hear  them  at  it,  like  sixes 
and  seventies  as  eversure  as  Halley's  comet,  ulemamen,  sobran- 
jewomen,  storthingboys  and  dumagirls,  as  they  pass  its  bleak  and 
bronze  portal  of  your  Casaconcordia:  Huru  more  Nee,  minny 
frickans?  Hwoorledes  har  Dee  det?  Losdoor  onleft  mladies,  cue. 
Millecientotrigintadue  scudi.  Tippoty,  kyrie,  tippoty.  Cha  kai 
rotty  kai  makkar,  sahib?  Despenseme  Usted,  senhor,  en  son  suc- 
co,  sabez.  O  thaw  bron  orm,  A'Cothraige,  thinkinthou  gaily? 
Lick-Pa-flai-hai-pa-Pa-li-si-lang-lang.  Epi  alo,  ecou.  Batiste,  tu- 
vavnr  dans  Lptit  boing  going.  Ismeme  de  bumbac  e  meias  de  por- 
tocallie.  0.0.  Os  pipos  mios  es  demasiada  gruarso  por  O  pic- 
colo pocchino.  Wee  fee?  Ung  duro.  Kocshis,  szabad?  Mercy,  and 
you?  Gomagh,  thak. 

And,  Cod,  says  he  with  mugger's  tears:  Would  you  care  to 
know  the  prise  of  a  Hard?  Maggis,  nick  your  nightynovel!  Mass 
Travener's  at  the  mike  again!  And  that  bag  belly  is  the  buck 
to  goat  it!  Meggeg,  m'gay  chapjappy  fellow,  I  call  our  univalse 
to  witness,  as  sicker  as  moyliffey  eggs  is  known  by  our  good 
househalters  from  yorehunderts  of  mamooth  to  be  which  they 
commercially  are  in  ahoy  high  British  quarters  (conventional!) 
my  guesthouse  and  cowhaendel  credits  will  immediately  stand 
ohoh  open  as  straight  as  that  neighbouring  monument's  fabrica- 
tion before  the  hygienic  gUll  (this  was  where  the  reverent  sab- 
both  and  bottlebreaker  with  firbalk  forthstretched  touched  upon 
his  tricoloured  boater,  which  he  uplifted  by  its  pickledhoopy  (he 
gave  Stetson  one  and  a  penny  for  it)  whileas  oleaginosity  of  an- 
cestralolosis  sgocciolated  down  the  both  pendencies  of  his  mut- 
sohito  liptails  (Sencapetulo,  a  more  modestuous  conciliabulite 
never  curled  a  torn  pocketmouth),  cordially  inwiting  the  adul- 
lescence  who  he  was  wising  up  to  do  in  like  manner  what  all  did 

54 


I 


so  as  he  was  able  to  add)  lobe  before  the  Great  Schoolmaster's. 
(I  tell  you  no  story.)  Smile! 

The  house  of  Atreox  is  fallen  indeedust  (Ilyam,  Ilyum!  Mae- 
romor  Mournomates !)  averging  on  blight  like  the  mundibanks  of 
Fennyana,  but  deeds  bounds  going  arise  again.  Life,  he  himself 
said  once,  (his  biografiend,  in  fact,  kills  him  verysoon,  if  yet  not, 
after)  is  a  wake,  livit  or  krikit,  and  on  the  bunk  of  our  bread- 
winning  lies  the  cropse  of  our  seedfather,  a  phrase  which  the 
establisher  of  the  world  by  law  might  pretinately  write  across 
the  chestfront  of  all  manorwombanborn.  The  scene,  refreshed, 
reroused,  was  never  to  be  forgotten,  the  hen  and  crusader  ever- 
intermutuomergent,  for  later  in  the  century  one  of  that  puisne 
band  of  factferreters,  (then  an  excivily  (out  of  the  custom  huts) 
(retired),  (hurt),  under  the  sixtyfives  act)  in  a  dressy  black  modern 
style  and  wewere  shiny  tan  burlingtons,  (tam,  homd  and  dicky, 
quopriquos  and  peajagd)  rehearsed  it,  pippa  pointing,  with  a 
dignified  (copied)  bow  to  a  namecousin  of  the  late  archdeacon 
F.  X.  Preserved  Coppinger  (a  hot  fellow  in  his  night,  may  the 
mouther  of  guard  have  mastic  on  him!)  in  a  pullwoman  of  our 
first  transhibernian  with  one  still  sadder  circumstance  which  is  a 
dirkandurk  heartskewerer  if  ever  to  bring  bouncing  brimmers 
from  marbled  eyes.  Cycloptically  through  the  windowdisks  and 
with  eddying  awes  the  round  eyes  of  the  rundreisers,  back  to  back, 
buck  to  bucker,  on  their  airish  chaunting  car,  beheld  with  in- 
touristing  anterestedness  the  clad  pursue  the  bare,  the  bare  the 
green,  the  green  the  frore,  the  frore  the  cladagain,  as  their  convoy 
wheeled  encirculingly  abound  the  gigantig's  lifetree,  our  fire- 
leaved  loverlucky  blomsterbohm,  phoenix  in  our  woodlessness, 
haughty,  cacuminal,  erubescent  (repetition!)  whose  roots  they  be 
asches  with  lustres  of  peins.  For  as  often  as  the  Archicadenus, 
pleacing  aside  his  Irish  Field  and  craving  their  auriculars  to  re- 
cepticle  particulars  before  they  got  the  bump  at  Castlebar  (mat 
and  far!)  spoke  of  it  by  request  all,  hearing  in  this  new  reading 
of  the  part  whereby,  because  of  Dyas  in  his  machina,  the  new 
garrickson's  grimacing  grimaldism  hypostasised  by  substintua- 
tion  the  axiomatic  orerotundity  of  that  once  grand  old  elrington 

55 


bawl,  the  copycus's  description  of  that  fellowcommuter's  plav 
upon  countenants,  could  simply  imagine  themselves  in  their  bo- 
som's inmost  core,  as  pro  tern  locums^  timesported  acorss  the  yawn- 
ing (abyss),  as  once  they  were  seasiders,  listening  to  the  cockshy- 
shooter's  evensong  evocation  of  the  doomed  but  always  ventri- 
loquent  Agitator,  (nonot  more  plangorpound  the  billows  o'er 
Thounawahallya  Reef!)  silkhouatted,  a  whallrhosmightiadd,  a- 
ginsst  the  dusk  of  skumring,  (would  that  fane  be  Saint  Muezzin's 
calling  —  holy  places !  —  and  this  fez  brimless  as  brow  of  faithful 
toucher  of  the  ground,  did  wish  it  were  —  blessed  be  the  bones ! 
—  the  ghazi,  power  of  his  sword.)  his  manslayer's  gunwielder 
protended  towards  that  overgrown  leadpencil  which  was  soon, 
monumentally  at  least,  to  rise  as  Molyvdokondylon  to,  to  be,  to 
be  his  mausoleum  (O'dan  stod  tillsteyne  at  meisies  aye  skould 
show  pon)  while  olover  his  exculpatory  features,  as  Roland  rung, 
a  wee  dropeen  of  grief  about  to  sillonise  his  jouejous,  the  ghost 
of  resignation  diffused  a  spectral  appealingness,  as  a  young  man's 
drown  o'er  the  fate  of  his  waters  may  gloat,  similar  in  origin  and 
akkurat  in  effective  to  a  beam  of  sunshine  upon  a  coffin  plate. 

Not  olderwise  Inn  the  days  of  the  Bygning  would  our  Travel- 
ler remote,  unfriended,  from  van  Demon's  Land,  some  lazy 
skald  or  maundering  pote,  lift  wearywilly  his  slowcut  snobsic 
eyes  to  the  semisigns  of  his  zooteac  and  lengthily  lingering  along 
flaskneck,  cracket  cup,  downtrodden  brogue,  turfsod,  wild- 
broom,  cabbageblad,  stockfisch,  longingly  learn  that  there  at  the 
Angel  were  herberged  for  him  poteen  and  tea  and  praties  and 
baccy  and  wine  width  woman  wordth  warbling:  and  informally 
quasi-begin  to  presquesm'ile  to  queasithin'  (Nonsense!  There 
was  not  very  much  windy  Nous  blowing  at  the  given  moment 
through  the  hat  of  Mr  Melancholy  Slow!) 

But  in  the  pragma  what  formal  cause  made  a  smile  of  that  to- 
think.'^  Who  was  he  to  whom.'*  (O'Breen's  not  his  name  nor  the 
brown  one  his  maid.)  Whose  are  the  placewheres.'*  Kiwasti,  kis- 
ker,  kither,  kitnabudja.^  Tal  the  tem  of  the  tumulum.  Giv  the  gav 
of  the  grube.  Be  it  cudgelplayers'  country,  orfishfellows'  town  or 
leeklickers'  land  or  panbpanungopovengreskey.  What  regnans 

56 


I 


I 


raised  the  rains  have  levelled  but  we  hear  the  pointers  and  can 
gauge  their  compass  for  the  melos  yields  the  mode  and  the  mode 
the  manners  plicyman,  plansiman,  plousiman,  plab.  Tsin  tsin  tsin 
tsin!  The  forefarther  folkers  for  a  prize  of  two  peaches  with 
Ming,  Ching  and  Shunny  on  the  lie  low  lea.  We'll  sit  down  on 
the  hope  of  the  ghouly  ghost  for  the  titheman  troubleth  but  his 
hantitat  hies  not  here.  They  answer  from  their  Zoans;  Hear  the 
four  of  them!  Hark  torroar  of  them!  I,  says  Armagh,  and  a'm 
proud  o'it.  I,  says  Clonakilty,  God  help  us !  I,  says  Deansgrange, 
and  say  nothing.  I,  says  Barna,  and  whatabout  it?  Hee  haw!  Be- 
fore he  fell  hill  he  filled  heaven:  a  stream,  alplapping  streamlet, 
coyly  coiled  um,  cool  of  her  curls:  We  were  but  thermites  then, 
wee,  wee.  Our  antheap  we  sensed  as  a  Hill  of  Allen,  the  Barrow 
for  an  People,  one  Jotnursfjaell:  and  it  was  a  grummelung  amung 
the  porktroop  that  wonderstruck  us  as  a  thunder,  yunder. 

Thus  the  unfacts,  did  we  possess  them,  are  too  imprecisely 
few  to  warrant  our  certitude,  the  evidencegivers  by  legpoll  too 
untrustworthily  irreperible  where  his  adjugers  are  semmingly 
freak  threes  but  his  judicandees  plainly  minus  twos.  Neverthe- 
less Madam's  Toshowus  waxes  largely  more  lifeliked  (entrance, 
