
Whereof  in  youthfood  port  I  preyed 

Amook  the  verdigrassy  convict  vallsall  da\es. 

And  cloitered  for  amourmeant  in  thy  hoosome  shede! 

His  mouthfull  of  ecstasy  (for  Shing- Yung-Thing  in  Shina  from 
Yoruyume  across  the  Timor  Sea),  herepong  (malad venture!)  shot 
pinging  up  through  the  errorooth  of  his  wisdom  (who  thought 
him  a  Fonar  all,  feastking  of  shellies  by  googling  Lovvey,  regally 
freytherem,  eagelly  plumed,  and  wasbut  gumboil  owrithy  prods 
wretched  some  horsery  megee  plods  coffin  acid  odarkery  pluds 
dense  floppens  mugurdy)  as  thought  it  had  been  zawhen  intwo. 
Wholly  sanguish  blooded  up  disconvulsing  the  fixtures  of  his 
fizz.  Apang  which  his  tempory  chewer  med  him  a  crazy  chump 
of  a  Haveajube  Sillayass.  Joshua  Croesus,  son  of  Nunn!  Though 
he  shall  live  for  millions  of  years  a  life  of  billions  of  years,  from 
their  roseaced  glows  to  their  violast  lustres,  he  shall  not  forget 
that  pucking  Pugases.  Holihowlsballs  and  bloody  acres!  Like 
gnawthing  unheardth! 

But,  by  Jove  Chronides,  Seed  of  Summ,  after  at  he  had  bate 
his  breastplates  for,  forforget,  forforgetting  his  birdsplace,  it  was 
soon  that,  that  he,  that  he  rehad  himself.  By  a  prayer?  No,  that 
comes  later.  By  contrite  attrition?  Nay,  that  we  passed.  Mid 
esercizism?  So  is  richt. 

And  it  was  so.  And  Malthos  Moramor  resumed  his  soul.  With: 
Go  Ferchios  off  to  Allad  out  of  this!  An  oldsteinsong.  He  threwed 
his  fit  up  to  his  aers,  rolled  his  poligone  eyes,  snivelled  from  his 
snose  and  blew  the  guff  out  of  his  hornypipe.  The  hopjoimt  jerk 
of  a  ladle  broom  jig  that  he  learned  in  locofoco  when  a  redhot 
turnspite  he.  Under  reign  of  old  Roastin  the  Bowl  Ratskillers, 
readyos!  Why  was  that  man  for  he's  doin  her  wrong!  Lookery 
looks,  how  he's  knots  in  his  entrails!  Mookery  mooks,  it's  a 
grippe  of  his  gripes.  Seekeryseeks,  why  his  biting  he's  head  off? 

231 


Cokerycokes,  it's  his  spurt  of  coal.  And  may  his  tarpitch  dilute 
not  give  him  chromitis !  For  the  mauwe  that  blinks  you  blank  is 
mostly  Carbo.  Where  the  inflammabilis  might  pursuive  his  com- 
burenda  with  a  pure  flame  and  a  true  flame  and  a  flame  all  too- 
gasser,  soot.  The  worst  is  over.  Wait!  And  the  dubuny  Mag  may 
gang  to  preesses.  With  Dinny  Finneen,  me  canty,  ho!  In  the  lost 
of  the  gleamens.  Sousymoust.  For  he  would  himself  deal  a  treat- 
ment as  might  be  trusted  in  anticipation  of  his  inculmination  unto 
fructification  for  the  major  operation.  When  (pip!)  a  message 
interfering  intermitting  interskips  from  them  (pet!)  on  herzian 
waves,  (call  her  venicey  names!  call  her  a  stell!)  a  butterfly  from 
her  zipclasped  handbag,  a  wounded  dove  astarted  from,  escaping 
out  her  forecotes.  Isle  wail  for  yews,  O  doherlynt!  The  poetesser. 
And  around  its  scorched  cap  she  has  twilled  a  twine  of  flame  to 
let  the  laitiest  know  she's  marrid.  And  pim  it  goes  backballed.  Tot 
burns  it  so  leste.  A  claribel  cumbeck  to  errind.  Hers  before  his 
even,  posted  ere  penned.  He's  your  change,  thinkyou  methim. 
Go  daft  noon,  madden,  mind  the  step.  Please  stoop  O  to  please. 
Stop.  What  saying.'^  I  have  soreunder  from  to  him  now,  dear- 
mate  ashore,  so,  so  compleasely  till  I  can  get  redressed,  which 
means  the  end  of  my  stays  in  the  languish  of  Tintangle.  Is  you 
zealous  of  mes,  brother.'^  Did  you  boo  moiety  lowd.^  You  sup- 
poted  to  be  the  on  conditiously  rejected.'^  Satanly,  lade!  Can  that 
sobstufl",  whingeywilly!  Stop  up,  mavrone,  and  sit  in  my  lap, 
Pepette,  though  I'd  much  rather  not.  Like  things  are  m.  ds.  is  all 
in  vincibles.  Decoded. 

Now  a^run  for  his  money!  Now  a  dash  to  her  dot!  Old  cocker, 
young  crowy,  sifadda,  sosson.  A  bran  new,  speedhount,  out- 
stripperous  on  the  wind.  Like  a  waft  to  wingweary  one  or  a  sos 
to  a  coastguard.  For  directly  with  his  whoop,  stop  and  an  upa- 
lepsy  didando  a  tishy,  in  appreciable  less  time  than  it  takes  a 
glaciator  to  submerger  an  Atlangthis,  was  he  again,  agob,  before 
the  trembly  ones,  a  spark's  gap  ofl",  doubledasguesched,  gotten 
orlop  in  a  simplasailormade  and  shaking  the  storm  out  of  his 
hiccups.  The  smartest  vessel  you  could  find  would  elazilee  him 
on  her  knee  as  her  lucky  for  the  Rio  Grande.  He's  a  pigtail  tarr 

232 


) 

I 


ii 


j 

i 


and  if  he  hadn't  got  it  toothick  he'd  a  telltale  tall  of  his  pitcher 
on  a  wall  with  his  photure  in  the  papers  for  cutting  moutonlegs 
and  capers,  letting  on  he'd  jest  be  japers  and  his  tail  cooked  up. 
Goal!  It's  one  by  its  length. 

Angelinas,  hide  from  light  those  hues  that  your  sin  beau  may 
bring  to  light!  Though  down  to  your  dowerstrip  he's  bent  to 
knee  he  maun't  know  ledgings  here. 

For  a  haunting  way  will  go  and  you  need  not  make  your  mow. 
Find  the  frenge  for  frocks  and  translace  it  into  shocks  of  such  as 
touch  with  show  and  show. 

He  is  guessing  at  hers  for  all  he  is  worse,  the  seagoer.  Hark  to 
his  wily  geeses  goosling  by,  and  playfair,  lady !  And  note  that  they 
who  will  for  exile  say  can  for  dog  while  them  that  won't  leave 
ingle  end  says  now  for  know. 

For  he  faulters  how  he  hates  to  trouble  them  without. 

But  leaving  codhead's  mitre  and  the  heron's  plumes  sinistrant 
to  the  server  of  servants  and  rex  of  regums  and  making  a  bolder- 
dash  for  lubberty  of  speech  he  asks  not  have  you  seen  a  match 
being  struck  nor  is  this  powder  mine  but,  letting  punplays  pass 
to  ernest: 

—  Haps  thee  jaoneofergs.'^ 

—  Nao. 

—  Haps  thee  mayj aunties.'^ 

—  Naohao. 

—  Haps  thee  per  causes  nunsibellies.'^ 

—  Naohaohao. 

—  Asky,  asky,  asky!  Gau  on!  Micaco!  Get! 
Ping  an  ping  nwan  ping  pwan  pong. 

And  he  did  a  get,  their  anayance,  and  slink  his  hook  away, 
aleguere  come  alaguerre,  like  a  chimista  inchamisas,  whom  the 
harricana  hurries  and  hots  foots,  zingo,  zango,  segur.  To  hoots 
of  utskut,  urqurd,  jamal,  qum,  yallah,  yawash,  yak!  For  he  could 
ciappacioppachew  upon  a  skarp  snakk  of  pure  undefallen  engelsk, 
melanmoon  or  tartatortoise,  tsukisaki  or  soppisuppon,  as  raskly 
and  as  baskly  as  your  cheesechalk  cow  cudd  spanich.  Makoto! 
Whagta  kriowday!  Gelagala  nausy  is.  Yet  right  divining  do  not 

233 


was.  Hovobovo  hafogate  hokidimatzi  in  kamicha!  He  had  his 
sperrits  all  foulen  on  him;  to  vet,  most  griposly,  he  was  bedizzled 
and  debuzzled;  he  had  his  tristiest  cabaleer  on;  and  looked  like 
bruddy  Hal.  A  shelling  a  cockshy  and  be  donkey  shot  at.'*  Or  a 
peso  besant  to  join  the  armada.'^ 

But,  Sin  Showpanza,  could  anybroddy  which  walked  this  world 
with  eyes  whiteopen  have  looked  twinsorner  than  the  kerl  he  left 
behind  him.^  Candidatus,  viridosus,  aurilucens,  sinelab?  Of  all 
the  green  heroes  everwore  coton  breiches,  the  whitemost,  the 
goldenest!  How  he  stud  theirs  with  himselfs  mookst  kevinly,  and 
that  anterevolitionary,  the  churchman  childfather  from  tonsor's 
tuft  to  almonder's  toes,  a  haggiography  in  duotrigesumy,  son 
soptimost  of  sire  sixtusks,  of  Mayaqueenies  sign  osure,  hevnly 
buddhy  time,  inwreathed  of  his  near  cissies,  a  mickly  dazzly  eely 
oily  with  looiscurrals,  a  soulnetzer  by  zvesdals  priestessd,  their 
trail  the  tractive,  and  dem  dandypanies  knows  de  play  of  de  eye- 
lids, with  his  gamecox  spurts  and  his  smile  likequid  glue  (the 
suessiest  sourir  ever  weanling  wore),  whiles  his  host  of  spritties, 
lusspillerindernees,  they  went  peahenning  a  ripidarapidarpad 
around  him,  pilgrim  prinkips,  kerilour  kevinour,  in  neuchoristic 
congressulations,  quite  purringly  excited,  rpdrpd,  allauding  to 
him  by  all  the  licknames  in  the  litany  with  the  terms  in  which 
no  little  dulsy  nayer  ever  thinks  about  implying  except  to  her 
future's  year  and  sending  him  perfume  most  praypuffs  to  setis- 
fire  more  then  to  teasim  (shllwe  help,  now  youVe  massmuled, 
you  t'rigolect  a  bit.'^  yismik.'^  yimissy.'^)  that  he,  the  finehued,  the 
fairhailed,  the  farahead,  might  bouchesave  unto  each  but  every- 
one, asfar  as  safras  durst  assune,  the  havemercyonhurs  of  his 
kissier  licence.  Meanings:  Andure  the  enjurious  till  imbetther  rer. 
We  know  you  like  Latin  with  essies  impures,  (and  your  liber  as 
they  sea)  we  certney  like  gurgles  love  the  nargleygargley  so,  arrah- 
beejee,  tell  that  old  frankay  boyuk  to  bellows  upthe  tombucky  in 
his  tumtum  argan  and  give  us  a  gust  of  his  gushy  old.  Goof! 

Hyrnnumber  twentynine.  O,  the  singing!  Happy  little  girly- 
cums  to  have  adolphted  such  an  Adelphus!  O,  the  swinginging 
hopops  so  goholden!  They've  come  to  chant  en  chor.  They  say 

234 


I 


their  salat,  the  madiens'  prayer  to  the  messiager  of  His  Nabis, 
prostitating  their  selfs  eachwise  and  combinedly.  Fateha,  fold  the 
hands.  Be  it  honoured,  bow  the  head.  May  thine  evings  e'en  be 
blossful!  Even  of  bliss!  As  we  so  hope  for  ablution.  For  the  sake 
of  the  farbung  and  of  the  scent  and  of  the  holiodrops.  Amems. 

A  pause.  Their  orison  arises  misquewhite  as  Osman  glory,  ebb- 
ing wasteward,  leaves  to  the  soul  of  light  its  fading  silence  (allah- 
lah  lahlah  lah!),  a  turquewashed  sky.  Then: 

—  Xanthos!  Xanthos!  Xanthos!  We  thank  to  thine,  mighty 
innocent,  that  diddest  bring  it  off  fuitefuite.  Should  in  ofter  years 
it  became  about  you  will  after  desk  jobduty  becoming  a  bank  mid- 
land mansioner  we  and  I  shall  reside  with  our  obeisant  servants 
among  Burke's  mobility  at  La  Roseraie,  Ailesbury  Road.  Red 
bricks  are  alUiellishly  good  values  if  you  trust  to  the  roster  of  ads 
but  we!Il„sayejup  qurselve  and  nab  what's  nicest  and  boskiest  of 
timber  trees  in  the  nebohood.  Oncaill's  plot.  Luccombe  oaks, 
Turkish  hazels,  Greek  firs,  incense  palm  edcedras.  The  hypso- 
meters  of  Mount  Anville  is  held  to  be  dying  out  of  arthataxis  but, 
praise  send  Larix  U'  Thule,  the  wych  elm  of  Manelagh  is  still 
flourishing  in  the  open,  because  its  native  of  our  nature  and  the 
seeds  was  sent  by  Fortune.  We'll  have  our  private  palypeachum 
pillarposterns  for  lovesick  letterines  fondly  affianxed  to  our  front 
railings  and  swings,  hammocks,  tighttaught  balletlines,  accomoda- 
tionnooks  and  prismic  bathboites,  to  make  Envyeyes  mouth 
water  and  wonder  when  they  binocular  us  from  their  embrassured 
windows  in  our  garden  rare.  Fyat-Fyat  shall  be  our  number 
on  the  autokinaton  and  Chubby  in  his  Chuffs  oursforownly 
chuffeur.  T  will  be  waiting  for  uns  as  I  sold  U  at  the  first  antries. 
Our  cousin  gourmand,  Percy,  the  pup,  will  denounce  the  sniff- 
nomers  of  all  callers  where  among  our  Seemyease  Sister,  Tabitha, 
the  ninelived,  will  extend  to  the  full  her  hearthy  welcome.  While 
the  turf  and  twigs  they  tattle.  Tintin  tintin.  Lady  Marmela  Short- 
bred  will  walk  in  for  supper  with  her  marchpane  switch  on,  her 
necklace  of  almonds  and  her  poirette  Sundae  dress  with  bracelets 
of  honey  and  her  cochineal  hose  with  the  caramel  dancings,  the 
briskly  best  from  Bootiestown,  and  her  suckingstaff  of  ivory- 

235 


mint.  You  mustn't  miss  it  or  you'll  be  sorry.  Charmeuses  chloes, 
glycering  juwells,  lydialight  fans  and  puffumed  cynarettes.  And 
the  Prince  Le  Monade  has  been  graciously  pleased.  His  six  choco- 
late pages  will  run  bugling  before  him  and  Cococream  toddle 
after  with  his  sticksword  in  a  pink  cushion.  We  think  His  Spark- 
ling Headiness  ought  to  know  Lady  Marmela.  Luisome  his  for 
lissome  hers.  He's  not  going  to  Cork  till  Cantalamesse  or  may- 
hope  till  Rose  Easter  or  Saint  Tibbie's  Day.  So  Niomon  knows. 
The  Fomor's  in  his  Fin,  the  Momor's  her  and  hin.  A  paaralone ! 
A  paaralone!  And  Dublin's  all  adin.  We'll  sing  a  song  of  Single- 
month  and  you'll  too  and  you'll.  Here  are  notes.  There's  the  key. 
One  two  three.  Chours !  So  come  on,  ye  wealthy  gentrymen  wib- 
frufrocksfull  of  fun!  Thin  thin!  Thin  thin!  Thej  oily  and  thel 
ively,  thou  billy  with  thee  coo,  for  to  jog  a  jig  of  a  crispness  nice 
and  sing  a  missal  too.  Hip  champouree!  Hiphip  champouree!  O 
you  longtailed  blackman,  polk  it  up  behind  me !  Hip  champouree ! 
Hiphip  champouree!  And,  jessies,  push  the  pumkik  round.  Anne- 
liuia! 

Since  the  days  of  Roamaloose  and  Rehmoose  the  pavanos  have 
been  strident  through  their  struts  of  Chapelldiseut,  the  vaulsies 
have  meed  and  youdled  through  the  purly  ooze  of  Ballybough, 
many  a  mismy  cloudy  has  tripped  taintily  along  that  hercourt 
strayed  reelway  and  the  rigadoons  have  held  ragtimed  revels  on 
the  platauplain  of  Grangegorman;  and,  though  since  then  ster- 
lings and  guineas  have  been  replaced  by  brooks  and  lions  and 
some  progress  has  been  made  on  stilts  and  the  races  have  come 
and  gone  and  Thyme,  that  chef  of  seasoners,  has  made  his  usual 
astewte  use  of  endadjustables  and  whatnot  willbe  isnor  was,  those 
danceadeils  and  cancanzanies  have  come  stimmering  down  for  our 
begayment  through  the  bedeafdom  of  po's  taeorns,  the  obcecity 
of  pa's  teapucs,  as  lithe  and  limbfree  limber  as  when  momie 
mummed  at  ma. 

Just  so  stylled  with  the  nattes  are  their  flowerheads  now  and 
each  of  all  has  a  lovestalk  onto  herself  and  the  tot  of  all  the  tits  of 
their  understamens  is  as  open  as  he  can  posably  she  and  is  toume- 
soled  straightcut  or  sidewaist,  accourdant  to  the  coursets  of 

236 


things  feminite,  towooerds  him  in  heliolatry,  so  they  may  catch- 
cup  in  their  calyzettes,  alls  they  go  troping,  those  parryshoots 
from  his  muscalone  pistil,  for  he  can  eyespy  through  them,  to 
their  selfcolours,  nevertheleast  their  tissue  peepers,  (meaning 
Mullabury  mesh,  the  time  of  appling  flowers,  a  guarded  figure 
of  speech,  a  variety  of  perfume,  a  bridawl,  seamist  inso  one)  as 
leichdy  as  see  saw  (O  my  goodmiss!  O  my  greatmess!  O  my 
prizelestly  preshoes!)  while,  dewyfully  as  dimb  dumbelles,  all 
alisten  to  his  elixir.  Lovelyt! 
And  they  said  to  him: 

—  Enchainted,  dear  sweet  Stainusless,  young  confessor,  dearer  ;h 
dearest,  we  herehear,  aboutobloss,  O  coelicola,  thee  salutamt.  P 
Pattern  of  our  unschoold,  paggsBtmaster,  deE^^exer  of  softmis- 
sives,  round  the  world  in  fpriy^mails,  bag,  belt  and  balmybeam, 
our  barnaboy,  our  chepachap,  with  that  pampipe  in  your  put- 
away,  gab  borab,  when  you  will  be  after  doing  all  your  sight- 
seeing and  soundhearing  and  smellsniffing  and  tastytasting  and 
tenderumstouchings  in  all  Daneygaul,  send  us,  your  adorables, 
thou  overblaseed,  ajwise  and  letters  play  of  all  you  can  ceive, 
chief  celtech  chappy,  from  yom:,  holy  post  now  you  hast  as- 
certained ceremonially  our  names.  Unclean  you  art  not.  Outcaste 
thou  are  not.  Leperstower,  the  karman's  loki,  has  not  blanched 
at  our  goliutipn  and  your  intercourse  at  ninety  legsplits  does  not 
defile.  Untouchable  is  not  the  scarecrown  is  on  you.  You  are 
pure.  You  are  pure.  You  are  in  your  puerity.  You  have  not 
brought  stinking  members  into  the  house  of  Amanti.  Elleb  Inam, 
Titep  Notep,  we  name  them  to  the  Hall  of  Honour.  Your  head 
has  been  touched  by  the  god  Enel-Rah  and  your  face  has  been 
brightened  by  the  goddess  Aruc-Ituc.  Return,  sainted  youngling, 
and  walk  once  more  among  us !  The  rains  of  Demani  are  masikal 
as  of  yere.  And  Baraza  is  all  aflower.  Siker  of  calmy  days.  As 
shiver  as  shower  can  be.  Our  breed  and  better  class  is  in  brood 
and  bitter  pass.  Labbeycliath  longs.  But  we're  counting  on  the 
cluck.  The  Great  Cackler  comes  again.  Sweetstaker,  Abel  lord  of 
all  our  haloease,  we  (to  be  slightly  more  femmiliar  perhips  than  is 
slickly  more  then  nacessory),  toutes  philomelas  as  well  as  mag- 

237 


delenes,  were  drawpairs  with  two  pinmarks,  BVD  and  BVD  dot, 
so  want  lotteries  of  ticklets  posthastem  (you  appreciate?)  so  as  to 
be  very  dainty,  if  an  isaspell,  and  so  as  to  be  verily  dandydainty, 
if  an  ishibilley,  of  and  on,  to  and  for,  by  and  with,  from  you. 
Let  the  hitback  hurry  his  wayward  ere  the  missive  has  time  to 
take  herself  off,  'twill  be  o'erthemore  willfully  intomeet  if  the 
coming  offence  can  send  our  shudders  before.  We  feem  to  have 
being  elfewhere  as  tho'  th*  had  pafs'd  in  our  fufpens.  Next 
to  our  shrinking  selves  we  love  sensitivas  best.  For  they  are 
the  Angles.  Brick,  fauve,  jonquil,  sprig,  fleet,  nocturne,  smiling 
bruise.  For  they  are  an  Angele's  garment.  We  will  be  constant 
(what  a  word!)  and  bless  the  day,  for  whole  hours  too,  yes,  for 
sold  long  syne  as  we  shall  be  being  in  our  created  being  of  ours 
elvishness,  the  day  you  befell,  you  dreadful  temptation!  Now 
promisus  as  at  our  requisted  you  will  remain  ignorant  of  all  what 
you  hear  and,  though  if  whilst  disrobing  to  the  edge  of  risk,  (the 
bisifings  in  idolhours  that  satinfines  tootoo !)  draw  a  veil  till  we 
next  time!  You  don't  want  to  peach  but  bejimboed  if  ye  do! 
Perhelps.  We  ernst  too  may.  How  many  months  or  how  many 
years  till  the  myriadth  and  first  become!  Bashfulness  be  tupped! 
May  he  colp,  may  he  colp  her,  may  he  mixandmass  colp  her! 
Talk  with  a  hare  and  you  wake  of  a  tartars.  That's  mus.  Says  the 
Law.  List!  Kicky  Lacey,  the  pervergined,  and  Bianca  Mutantini, 
her  conversa,  drew  their  fools  longth  finnishfurst,  Herzog  van 
Vellentam,  but  me  and  meother  ravin,  my  coosine  of  mine,  have 
mour  good  three  chancers,  weothers,  after  Bohnaparts.  The 
mything  smile  of  me,  my  wholesole  assumption,  shes  nowt  me- 
without  as  weam  twin  herewithin,  that  I  love  like  myselfish,  like 
smithereens  robinsongs,  like  juneses  nutslost,  like  the  blue  of  the 
sky  if  I  stoop  for  to  spy's  between  my  whiteyoumightcallimbs. 
How  their  duel  makes  their  triel!  Eer's  wax  for  Sur  Soord,  dong- 
dong  bollets  for  the  iris  riflers,  queemswellth  of  coocome  in  their 
combs  for  the  jennyjos.  Caro  caressimus!  Honey  swarns  where 
mellisponds.  Will  bee  all  buzzy  one  another  minnies  for  the  mere 
effect  that  you  are  so  fuld  of  pollen  yourself.  Teomeo!  Daurdour! 
We  feel  unspeechably  thoughtless  over  it  all  here  in  Gizzygazelle 

238 


Tark's  bimboowood  so  pleasekindly  communicake  with  the 
original  sinse  we  are  only  yearning  as  yet  how  to  burgeon.  It's 
meant  milliems  of  centiments  deadlost  or  mislaid  on  them  but, 
master  of  snakes,  we  can  sloughchange  in  the  nip  of  a  napple 
solongas  we  can  allsee  for  deedsetton  your  quick.  By  the  hook 
in  your  look  we're  eyed  for  aye  were  you  begging  the  questuan 
with  your  lutean  bowl  round  Monkmesserag.  And  whenever 
you're  tingling  in  your  trout  we're  sure  to  be  tangled  in  our  tice- 
ments.  It's  game,  ma  chere,  be  off  with  your  shepherdress  on!  Up- 
some  Cauda !  Behose  our  handmades  for  the  lured !  To  these  nunce 
we  are  but  yours  in  ammatures  yet  well  come  that  day  we  shall  ope 
to  be  ores.  Then  shalt  thou  see,  seeing,  the  sight.  No  more  hoax- 
ites!  Nay  more  gifting  in  mennage!  A  her's  fancy  for  a  his  friend 
and  then  that  fellow  yours  after  this  follow  ours.  Vania,  Vania 
Vaniorum,  Domne  Vanias! 

Hightime  is  ups  be  it  down  into  outs  according!  When  there 
shall  be  foods  for  vermin  as  full  as  feeds  for  the  fett,  eat  on  earth 
as  there's  hot  in  oven.  When  every  Klitty  of  a  scolderymeid  shall 
hold  every  yardscullion's  right  to  stimm  her  uprecht  for  whimso- 
ever,  whether  on  privates,  whather  in  publics.  And  when  all  us 
romance  catholeens  shall  have  ones  for  all  amanseprated.  And  the 
world  is  maidfree.  Methanks.  So  much  for  His  Meignysthy  man! 
And  all  his  bigyttens.  So  till  Coquette  to  tell  Cockotte  to  teach 
Connie  Curley  to  touch  Cattie  Hayre  and  tip  Carminia  to  tap  La 
Cherie  though  where  the  diggings  he  dwellst  amongst  us  here's 
nobody  knows  save  Mary.  Whyfor  we  go  ringing  hands  in  hands 
in  gyrogyrorondo. 

These  bright  elects,  consentconsorted,  they  were  waltzing  up 
their  willside  with  their  princesome  handsome  angeline  chiuff  h  ( 
while  in  those  wherebus  there  wont  bears  way  (mearing  un-  5^ 
known,  a  place  where  pigeons  carry  fire  to  seethe  viands,  a  miry 
hill,  beige  end  sore  footh)  oaths  and  screams  and  bawley  groans 
with  a  belchybubhub  and  a  hellabelow  bedemmed  and  bediabbled 
the  arimaining  lucisphere.  Helldsdend,  whelldselse!  Lonedom's 
breach  lay  foulend  up  uncouth  not  be  broched  by  punns  and 
reedles.  Yet  the  ring  gayed  rund  rorosily  with  a  drat  for  a  brat 

239 


you.  Yasha  Yash  ate  sassage  and  mash.  So  he  found  he  bash,  poor 
Yasha  Yash.  And  you  wonna  make  one  of  our  micknick  party. 
No  honaryhuest  on  our  sposhialiste.  For  poor  Glugger  was  dazed 
and  late  in  his  crave,  ay  he,  laid  in  his  grave. 

But  low,  boys  low,  he  rises,  shrivering,  with  his  spittyful  eyes 
and  his  whoozebecome  woice.  Ephthah!  Cisamis!  Examen  of 
conscience  scruples  now  he  to  the  best  of  his  memory  schemado. 
Nu  mere  for  ever  siden  on  the  stolen.  With  his  tumescinquinance 
in  the  thight  of  his  tumstuU.  No  more  singing  all  the  dags  in 
his  sengaggeng.  Experssly  at  hand  counterhand.  Trinitatis  kink 
had  mudded  his  dome,  peccat  and  pent  fore,  pree.  Hymserf, 
munchaowl,  maden,  born  of  thug  tribe  into  brood  blackmail,  dooly 
redecant  allbigenesis  henesies.  He,  by  bletchendmacht  of  the  golls, 
proforhim  penance  and  come  off  entematural.  He,  selfsufficiencer, 
eggscumuddher- in -chaff  sporticolorissimo,  what  though  the 
duthsthrows  in  his  lavabad  eyes,  maketomake  polentay  rossum, 
(Good  savours  queen  with  the  stem  of  swuith  Aftreck!  Fit  for 
king  of  Zundas)  out  of  bianconies,  hiking  ahake  like  any  nudge- 
meroughgorude  all  over  Terracuta.  No  more  throw  acids,  face  all 
lovabilities,  appeal  for  the  union  and  play  for  tirnitys.  He,  praise 
Saint  Calembaurnus,  make  clean  breastsack  of  goody  girl  now  as 
ever  drank  milksoep  from  a  spoen,  weedhearted  boy  of  potter  and 
mudder,  chip  of  old  Flinn  the  Flinter,  twig  of  the  hider  that  tanned 
him.  He  go  calaboosh  all  same  he  tell  him  out.  Teufleuf  man  he 
strip  him  all  mussymussy  calico  blong  him  all  same  he  tell  him  all 
out  how  he  make  what  name.  He,  through  wolkenic  connection, 
relation  belong  this  remarklable  moliman,  Anaks  Andrum,  parley- 
glutton  pure  blood  Jebusite,  centy  procent  Erserum  spoking. 
Drugmallt  storehuse.  Intrance  on  back.  Most  open  on  the  lay- 
days. He,  A.  A.,  in  peachskin  shantungs,  possible,  sooth  to  say, 
notwithstanding  far  former  guiles  and  he  gaining  fish  consider- 
able, by  saving  grace  after  avalunch,  to  look  most  prophitable 
out  of  smily  skibluh  eye.  He  repeat  of  him  as  pious  alios  cos  he 
ast  for  shave  and  haircut  people  said  he'd  shape  of  hegoat  where 
he  just  was  sheep  of  herrgott  with  his  tile  togged.  Top.  Not  true 
what  chronicles  is  bringing  his  portemanteau  priamed  full  potato- 

240 


wards.  Big  dumm  crumm  digaditchies  say  short  again  akter,  even 
while  lossassinated  by  summan,  he  coaxyorum  a  pennysilvers 
ofFarings  bloadonages  widi  candid  zuckers  on  Spinshesses  Walk 
in  presents  to  lilithe  maidinettes  for  at  bloo  his  noose  for  him 
with  pruriest  pollygameous  inatentions,  he  having  that  pecuni- 
arity  ailmint  spectacularly  in  heather  cliff  emurgency  on  gale 
days  because  souffrant  chronic  from  a  plentitude  of  house  torts. 
Collosul  rhodomantic  not  wert  one  bronze  lie  Scholarina  say  as 
he,  greyed  vike  cuddlepuUer,  walk  in  her  sleep  his  pig  indicks 
weg  femtyfem  funts.  Of  so  little  is  her  timentrousnest  great  for 
greeting  his  immensesness.  Sutt  soonas  sett  they  were,  her  uyes 
as  his  auroholes.  Kaledvalch!  How  could  one  classically.'^  One 
could  naught  critically.  Ininest  lightingshaft  only  for  lovalit 
smugpipe,  his  Mistress  Mereshame,  of  cupric  tresses,  the  form-  v^^ 
white  foaminine,  the  ambersandalled,  after  Aasdocktor  Talop's 
onamuttony  legture.  A  mish,  holy  balm  of  seinsed  myrries,  he  is 
as  good  as  a  mountain  and  everybody  what  is  found  of  his  gients  ^  h 

he  knew  Meistral  Wikingson,  furframed  Noordwogen's  kampf-  '  '  ^  ' 
ten,  with  complexion  of  blushing  dolomite  fanned  by  ozeone 
brisees,  what  naver  saw  his  bedshead  farrer  and  nuver  met  his 
swigamore,  have  his  ignomen  from  prima  signation  of  being 
Master  Milchku,  queerest  man  in  the  benighted  queendom,  and, 
adcraft  aidant,  how  he  found  the  kids.  Other  accuse  him  as 
lochkneeghed  forsunkener,  dope  in  stockknob,  all  ameltingmoult 
after  rhomatism,  purely  simply  tammy  ratkins.  The  kurds  of 
Copt  on  the  berberutters  and  their  bedaweens!  Even  was  Shes 
whole  begeds  off  before  all  his  nahars  in  the  koldbethizzdryel.  No 
gudth!  Not  one  zouz!  They  whiteliveried  ragsups,  two  Whales  of 
the  Sea  of  Deceit,  they  bloodiblabstard  shooters,  three  Drome- 
daries of  the  Sands  of  Calumdonia.  As  is  note  worthies  to  shock 
his  hind!  Ur  greeft  on  them!  Such  askors  and  their  ruperts  they 
are  putting  in  for  more  osghirs  is  alse  false  liarnels.  The  frocken- 
halted  victims!  Whore  affirm  is  agains  sempry  Lotta  Karssens. 
They  would  lick  their  lenses  before  they  would  negatise  a  jom  '>^J  ^ 
petter  from  his  sodalites.  In  his  contrary  and  on  reality,  which 
Bichop  Babwith  bares  to  his  whitness  in  his  Just  a  Ficadon  of 

241 


Villumses^  this  Mr  Heer  Assassor  Neelson,  of  sorestate  hearing, 
diseased,  formarly  with  Adenoiks,  den  feed  all  lighty,  laxtleap 
great  change  of  retiring  family  buckler,  highly  accurect  in  his 
everythinks,  from  tencents  coupoU  to  bargain  basement,  live  with 
howthold  of  nummer  seven,  wideawake,  woundabout,  wokin- 
betts,  weeklings,  in  black  velvet  on  geolgian  mission  senest  mangy 
years  his  rear  in  the  lane  pictures,  blanking  same  with  autonaut 
and  annexes  and  got  a  daarlingt  babyboy  bucktooth,  the  thick  of 
a  gobstick,  coming  on  ever  so  nerses  nursely,  gracies  to  goodess, 
at  8i.i/That  why  all  parks  up  excited  about  his  gunnfodder.  That 
why  ecrazyaztecs  and  the  crime  ministers  preaching  him  morn- 
ings and  makes  a  power  of  spoon  vittles  out  of  his  praverbs.  That 
why  he,  persona  erecta,  glycorawman  arsenicful  femorniser,  for 
a  trial  by  julias,  in  celestial  sunhat,  with  two  purses  agitatating 
his  theopot  with  wokklebout  shake,  rather  incoherend,  from  one 
1 8  to  one  i8  biss,  young  shy  gay  youngs.  Sympoly  far  infusing 
up  pritty  tipidities  to  lock  up  their  rhainodaisies  and  be  nice 
and  twainty  in  the  shade.  Old  grand  tuttut  toucher  up  of  young 
poetographies  and  he  turn  aroundabrupth  red  altfrumpishly  like 
hear  samhar  tionnor  falls  some  make  one  noise.  It's  his  last  lap, 
Gigantic,  fare  him  weal!  Revelation!  A  fact.  True  bill.  By  a  jury 
of  matrons.  Hump  for  humbleness,  dump  for  dirts.  And,  to  make 
a  long  stoney  badder  and  a  whorly  show  a  parfect  sight,  his  Thing 
went  the  wholyway  retup  Suffrogate  Strate. 

Helpmeat  too,  contrasta  toga,  his  fiery  goosemother,  laotsey 
taotsey,  woman  who  did,  he  tell  princes  of  the  age  about.  You 
sound  on  me,  judges!  Suppose  we  brisken  up.  Kings!  Meet  the 
Mem,  Avenlith,  all  viviparous  out  of  couple  of  lizards.  She  just  as 
fenny  as  he  is  fulgar.  How  laat  soever  her  latest  still  her  sawlogs 
come  up  all  standing.  Psing  a  psalm  of  psexpeans,  apocryphul  of 
rhyme!  His  cheekmole  of  allaph  foriverever  her  allinall  and  his 
Kuran  never  teachit  her  the  be  the  owner  of  thyself.  So  she  not 
swop  her  eckcot  hjem  for  Howarden's  Castle,  Englandwales.  But 
be  the  alleance  of  iern  on  his  flamen  vestacoat,  the  fibule  of  brooch- 
bronze  to  his  wintermantle  of  pointefox.  Who  not  knows  she,  the 
Madame  Cooley-Couley,  spawife  to  laird  of  manna,  when  first 

242 


I 


come  into  the  pictures  more  as  hundreads  elskerelks'  yahrds  of 
annams  call  away,  factory  fresh  and  fiuming  at  the  mouth,  wronged 
by  Hwemwednoget  (magrathmagreeth,  he  takable  a  rap  for  that 
early  party)  and  whenceforward  Ani  Mama  and  her  fiertey 
bustles  terrified  of  gmere  gnomes  of  gmountains  and  furibound 
to  be  back  in  her  mytinbeddy?  Schi  schi,  she  feightened  allsouls 
at  pignpugn  and  gets  a  pan  in  her  stummi  from  the  pialabellars 
in  their  pur  war.  Yet  jackticktating  all  around  her  about  his  poor- 
liness  due  to  pannellism  and  grime  for  that  he  harboured  her  when 
feme  sole,  her  zoravarn  Ihorde  and  givnergenral,  and  led  her  in 
antient  consort  ruhm  and  bound  her  durant  coverture  so  as  she 
could  not  steal  from  him,  oz  her  or  damman,  so  as  if  ever  she's 
beleaved  by  checkenbrooth  death  since  both  was  parties  to  the 
feed  it's  Hetman  MacCumhal  foots  the  funeral.  Mealwhile  she 
nutre  him  jacent  from  her  elmer's  almsdish,  giantar  and  tschaina 
as  sieme  as  bibrondas  with  Foli  Signur's  tinner  roumanschy  to 
fishle  the  ladwigs  out  of  his  lugwags,  like  a  skittering  kitty 
skattering  hayels,  when  his  favourites  were  all  beruffled  on  him 
and  her  own  undesirables  justickulating,  it  was  such  a  blowick 
day.  Winden  wanden  wild  like  wenchen  wenden  wanton.  The 
why  if  he  but  would  bite  and  plug  his  baccypipes  and  renownse 
the  devlins  in  all  their  pumbs  and  kip  the  streelwarkers  out  of 
the  plague  and  nettleses  milk  from  sickling  the  honeycoombe 
and  kop  Ulo  Bubo  selling  foulty  treepes,  she  would  make  massa 
dinars  with  her  savuneer  dealinsh  and  delicate  her  nutbrown 
glory  cloack  to  Mayde  Berenice  and  hang  herself  in  Ostmanns- 
town  Saint  Megan's  and  make  no  more  mulierage  before  ma- 
hatmas  or  moslemans,  but  would  ondulate  her  shookerloft  hat 
from  Alpoleary  with  a  viv  baselgia  and  a  clamast  apotria  like  any 
purple  cardinal's  princess  or  woman  of  the  grave  word  to  the 
papal  legate  from  the  Vatucum,  Monsaigneur  Rabbinsohn  Crucis, 
with  an  ass  of  milg  to  his  cowmate  and  chilterlings  on  account 
of  all  he  quaqueduxed  for  the  hnor  of  Hrom  and  the  nations 
abhord  him  and  wop  mezzo  scudo  to  Sant  Pursy  Orelli  that  gave 
Luiz-Marios  Josephs  their  loyal  devouces  to  be  offered  up  missas 
for  vowts  for  widders. 

243 


Hear,  O  worldwithout!  Tiny  tattling!  Backwoods,  be  wary! 
Daintytrees,  go  dutch! 

But  who  comes  yond  with  pire  on  poletop?  He  who  relights 
our  spearing  torch,  the  moon.  Bring  lolave  branches  to  mud 
cabins  and  peace  to  the  tents  of  Ceder,  Neomenie !  The  feast  of 
Tubboumigglers  is  at  hand.  Shopshup.  Inisfail!  Timple  temple 
tells  the  bells.  In  syngagyng  a  sangasongue.  For  all  in  Ondslos- 
by.  And,  the  hag  they  damename  Coverfew  hists  from  her  lane. 
And  haste,  'tis  time  for  bairns  ta  hame.  Chickchilds,  comeho  to 
roo.  Comehome  to  roo,  wee  chickchilds  doo,  when  the  wild- 
worewolf 's  abroad.  Ah,  let's  away  and  let's  gay  and  let's  stay 
chez  where  the  log  foyer's  burning!  Xv)V3>f  jt>ur\^-^ 

It  darkles,  (tinct,  tint)  all  this  our  funnaminal  world.  Yon 
marshpond  by  ruodmark  verge  is  visited  by  the  tide.  Alvem- 
marea!  We  are  circumveiloped  by  obscuritads.  Man  and  belves 
frieren.  There  is  a  wish  on  them  to  be  not  doing  or  anything.  Or 
just  for  rugs.  Zoo  koud!  Drr,  deff,  coal  lay  on  and,  pzz,  call  us 
pyrress !  Ha.  Where  is  our  highly  honourworthy  salutable  spouse- 
founderess?  The  foolish  one  of  the  family  is  within.  Haha!  Huzoor, 
where's  he.'^  At  house,  to's  pitty.  With  Nancy  Hands.  Tcheetchee! 
Hound  through  the  maize  has  fled.  What  hou!  Isegrim  under 
lolling  ears.  Far  wol!  And  wheaten  bells  bide  breathless.  All.  The 
trail  of  Gill  not  yet  is  to  be  seen,  rocksdrops,  up  benn,  down 
dell,  a  craggy  road  for  rambling.  Nor  yet  through  starland  that 
silver  sash.  What  era's  o'ering.'^  Lang  gong  late.  Say  long,  scielo ! 
Sillume,  see  lo!  Selene,  sail  01  Amune!  Ark!.^  Noh.^^!  Nought 
stirs  in  spinney.  The  swayful  pathways  of  the  dragonfly  spider 
stay  still  in  reedery.  Quiet  takes  back  her  folded  fields.  Tranquille 
thanks.  Adew.  In  deerhaven,  imbraced,  alleged,  injoynted  and 
unlatched,  the  birds,  tommelise  too,  quail  silent,  ii.  Luathan.'* 
Nuathan!  Was  avond  ere  a  while.  Now  conticinium.  As  Lord 
the  Laohun  is  sheutseuyes.  The  time  of  lying  together  will  come 
