shy,  taking  what  he  fondly  thought  was  a  short  cut  to  Caer  Fere, 
Soak  Amerigas,  vias  the  shipsteam  Pridewiriy  after  having  buried 
a  hatchet  not  so  long  before,  by  the  wrong  goods  exeunt,  num- 

171 


mer  desh  to  tren,  into  Patatapapaveri's,  fruiterers  and  musical 
florists,  with  his  Ciaho,  chavif  Sar  shin^  shillipen?  she  knew  the 
vice  out  of  bridewell  was  a  bad  fast  man  by  his  walk  on  the 
spot. 

[Johns  is  a  different  butcher's.  Next  place  you  are  up  town  pay 
him  a  visit.  Or  better  still,  come  tobuy.  You  will  enjoy  cattlemen's 
spring  meat.  Johns  is  now  quite  divorced  from  baking.  Fattens, 
kills,  flays,  hangs,  draws,  quarters  and  pieces.  Feel  his  lambs!  Ex! 
Feel  how  sheap!  Exex!  His  liver  too  is  great  value,  a  spatiality! 
Exexex!  COMMUNICATED.] 

Around  that  time,  moravar,  one  generally,  for  luvvomony 
hoped  or  at  any  rate  suspected  among  morticians  that  he  would 
early  turn  out  badly,  develop  hereditary  pulmonary  T.B.,  and 
do  for  himself  one  dandy  time,  nay,  of  a  pelting  night  blanketed 
creditors,  hearing  a  coarse  song  and  splash  off  Eden  Quay  sighed 
and  rolled  over,  sure  all  was  up,  but,  though  he  fell  heavily  and 
locally  into  debit,  not  even  then  could  such  an  antinomian  be 
true  to  type.  He  would  not  put  fire  to  his  cerebrum;  he  would 
not  throw  himself  in  Liffey;  he  would  not  explaud  himself  with 
pneumantics;  he  refused  to  saffrocake  himself  with  a  sod.  With 
the  foreign  devil's  leave  the  fraid  born  fraud  diddled  even  death. 
An:(i^  cabled  (but  shaking  the  worth  out  of  his  maulth:  Guarda- 
costa  leporello.^  Szasas  Kraicz!)  from  his  Nearapoblican  asylum 
to  his  jonathan  for  a  brother:  Here  tokay,  gone  tomory,  we're 
spluched,  do  something,  Fireless.  And  had  answer:  Inconvenient, 
David. 

You  see,  chaps,  it  will  trickle  out,  freaksily  of  course,  but  the 
tom  and  the  shorty  of  it  is:  he  was  in  his  bardic  memory  low. 
All  the  time  he  kept  on  treasuring  with  condign  satisfaction  each 
and  every  crumb  of  trektalk,  covetous  of  his  neighbour's  word, 
and  if  ever,  during  a  Munda  conversazione  commoted  in  the 
nation's  interest,  delicate  tippits  were  thrown  out  to  him  touch- 
ing his  evil  courses  by  some  wellwishers,  vainly  pleading  by 
scriptural  arguments  with  the  opprobrious  papist  about  trying 
to  brace  up  for  the  kidos  of  the  thing,  Scally  wag,  and  be  a  men 
instead  of  a  dem  scrounger,  dish  it  all,  such  as:  Pray,  what  is 

172 


Il 


the  meaning,  sousy,  of  that  continental  expression,  if  you  ever 
came  acrux  it,  we  think  it  is  a  word  transpiciously  like  canaille}: 
or:  Did  you  anywhere,  kennel,  on  your  gullible's  travels  or 
during  your  rural  troubadouring,  happen  to  stumble  upon  a 
certain  gay  young  nobleman  whimpering  to  the  name  of  Low 
Swine  who  always  addresses  women  out  of  the  one  corner  of 
his  mouth,  lives  on  loans  and  is  furtivefree  yours  of  age?  with- 
out one  sigh  of  haste  like  the  supreme  prig  he  was,  and  not  a  bit 
sorry,  he  would  pull  a  vacant  landlubber's  face,  root  with  ear- 
waker's  pensile  in  the  outer  of  his  lauscher  and  then,  lisping, 
the  prattlepate  parnella,  to  kill  time,  and  swatting  his  deadbest 
to  think  what  under  the  canopies  of  Jansens  Chrest  would  any 
decent  son  of  an  Albiogenselman  who  had  bin  to  an  university 
think,  let  a  lent  hit  a  hint  and  begin  to  tell  all  the  intelligentsia 
admitted  to  that  tamileasy  samtalaisy  conclamazzione  (since,  still 
and  before  physicians,  lawyers  merchant,  belfry  pollititians,  agri- 
colous  manufraudurers,  sacrestanes  of  the  Pure  River  Society, 
philanthropicks  lodging  on  as  many  boards  round  the  panesthetic 
at  the  same  time  as  possible)  the  whole  Hfelong  swrine  story  of 
his  entire  low  cornaille  existence,  abusing  his  deceased  ancestors 
wherever  the  sods  were  and  one  moment  tarabooming  great 
blunderguns  (poh!)  about  his  farfamed  fine  Poppamore,  Mr 
Humhum,  whom  history,  climate  and  entertainment  made  the 
first  of  his  sept  and  always  up  to  debt,  though  Eavens  ears  ow 
many  fines  he  faces,  and  another  moment  visanvrerssas,  cruach- 
ing  three  jeers  (pah!)  for  his  rotten  little  ghost  of  a  Peppybeg, 
Mr  Himmyshimmy,  a  blighty,  a  reeky,  a  Hghty,  a  scrapy,  a  bab- 
bly,  a  ninny,  dirty  seventh  among  thieves  and  always  bottom 
sawyer,  till  nowan  knowed  how  howmely  howme  could  be,  giv- 
ing unsolicited  testimony  on  behalf  of  the  absent,  as  glib  as  eaves- 
water  to  those  present  (who  meanwhile,  with  increasing  lack  of 
interest  in  his  semantics,  allowed  various  subconscious  smickers 
to  drivel  slowly  across  their  fichers),  unconsciously  explaining, 
for  inkstands,  with  a  meticulosity  bordering  on  the  insane,  the 
various  meanings  of  all  the  different  foreign  parts  of  speech  he 
misused  and  cuttlefishing  every  lie  unshrinkable  about  all  the 

173 


other  people  in  the  story,  leaving  out,  of  course,  foreconsciously, 
the  simple  worf  and  plague  and  poison  they  had  cornered  him 
about  until  there  was  not  a  snoozer  among  them  but  was  utterly 
undeceived  in  the  heel  of  the  reel  by  the  recital  of  the  rigmarole. 

He  went  without  saying  that  the  cull  disliked  anything  anyway 
approaching  a  plain  straightforward  standup  or  knockdown  row 
and,  as  often  as  he  was  called  in  to  umpire  any  octagonal  argu- 
ment among  slangwhangers,  the  accomplished  washout  always 
used  to  rub  shoulders  with  the  last  speaker  and  clasp  shakers  (the 
handtouch  which  is  speech  without  words)  and  agree  to  every 
word  as  soon  as  half  uttered,  command  me!,  your  servant,  good, 
I  revere  you,  how,  my  seer?  be  drinking  that!  quite  truth,  grati- 
as,  Fm  yoush,  see  wha'm  hearing?,  also  goods,  please  it,  me 
sure?,  be  filling  this!,  quiso,  you  said  it,  apasafello,  muchas 
grassyass,  is  tliere  firing-on-me?,  is  their  girlic-on-you?,  to  your 
good  self,  your  sulphur,  and  then  at  once  focuss  his  whole 
unbalanced  attention  upon  the  next  octagonist  who  managed  to 
catch  a  listener's  eye,  asking  and  imploring  him  out  of  his 
piteous  onewinker,  (Jiemoptysia  diadumenos)  whether  there  was 
anything  in  the  world  he  could  do  to  please  him  and  to  overflow 
his  tumbletantaliser  for  him  yet  once  more. 

One  hailcannon  night  (for  his  departure  was  attended  by  a 
heavy  downpour)  as  very  recently  as  some  thousand  rains  ago  he 
was  therefore  treated  with  what  closely  resembled  parsonal  viol- 
ence, being  soggert  all  unsuspectingly  through  the  deserted  village 
of  Tumblin-on-the-Leafy  from  Mr  Vanhomrigh's  house  at  8i  bis 
Mabbot's  Mall  as  far  as  Green  Patch  beyond  the  brickfields  of 
Salmon  Pool  by  rival  teams  of  slowspiers  counter  quicklimers 
who  finally,  as  rahilly  they  had  been  deteened  out  rawther  lae- 
tich,  thought,  busnis  hits  busnis,  they  had  better  be  streaking  for 
home  after  their  Auborne-to-Auborne,  with  thanks  for  the  pleasant 
evening,  one  and  all  disgustedly,  instead  of  ruggering  him  back, 
and  awake,  reconciled  (though  they  were  as  jealous  as  could  be 
cullions  about  all  the  truffles  they  had  brought  on  him)  to  a 
friendship,  fast  and  furious,  which  merely  arose  out  of  die  noxious 
pervert's  perfect  lowness.  Again  there  was  a  hope  that  people, 

174 


\ 


looking  on  him  with  the  contemp  of  the  contempibles,  after 
first  gaving  him  a  roll  in  the  dirt,  might  pity  and  forgive  him,  if 
properly  deloused,  but  the  pleb  was  born  a  Quicklow  and  sank 
alowing  till  he  stank  out  of  sight. 

All  Saints  beat  Belial!  Mickil  Goals  to  Nichil!  Notpossible! 
Already? 

In  Nowhere  has  yet  the  Whole  World  taken  part  of  himself  for  his 
Wife; 

By  Nowhere  have  Poorparents  been  sentenced  to  Worms ^  Blood  and 

Thunder  for  Life 
Not  yet  has  the  Empfrom  Cor psica  forced  the  Arth  out  of Engleterre; 
Not  yet  have  the  Sachsen  and  Judder  on  the  Mound  of  a  Word  made 

Warre; 

Not  yet  Witchywithcy  of  Wench  struck  Fire  of  his  Heath  from  on 
Hoath; 

Not  yet  his  Arcohaleine  forespoken  Peacepeace  upon  Oath; 
Cleftfoot  from  Hempal  must  tumpel,  Blamefool  Gardener  s  bound  to 

Broken  Eggs  will  poursuive  bitten  Apples  for  where  theirs  is  Will 
there  s  his  Wall; 

But  the  Mountstill  frowns  on  the  Millstream  while  their  Madsons 
leap  his  Bier 

And  her  Rillstrill  liffs  to  His  Murkesty  all  her  daft  Daughters  laff 
in  her  Ear, 

Till  the  four  Shores  of  deff  Tory  Island  let  the  dou^e  dumm  Eire- 
whiggs  raille! 

HirpI  Hirp!  for  their  Missed  Understandings!  chirps  the  Ballat  of 
Perce-Oreille, 

O  fortunous  casualitas!  Lefty  takes  the  cherubcake  while 
Rights  cloves  his  hoof.  Darkies  never  done  tug  that  coon  out  to 
play  non-excretory,  anti-sexuous,  misoxenetic,  gaasy  pure,  flesh 
and  blood  games,  written  and  composed  and  sung  and  danced 
by  Niscemus  Nemon,  same  as  piccaninnies  play  all  day,  those 
old  (none  of  your  honeys  and  rubbers !)  games  for  fun  and  ele- 
ment we  used  to  play  with  Dina  and  old  Joe  kicking  her  behind 
and  before  and  the  yellow  girl  kicking  him  behind  old  Joe, 

175 


games  like  Thorn  Thorn  the  Thonderman,  Put  the  Wind  up  the 
Peeler^  Hat  in  the  Ring,  Prissonyour  P  rite  hards  and  Play  Withers 
Team,  Mikel  on  the  Lucky  pig.  Nickel  in  the  Slot,  Sheila  Harnett  and 
her  Cow,  Adam  and  Ell,  Humble  Bumble,  Moggie  s  on  the  Wall, 
Twos  and  Threes,  American  Jump,  Fox  Come  out  of  your  Den, 
Broken  Bottles,  W riting  a  Letter  to  Punch,  Tiptop  is  a  Sweetstore, 
Henressy  Crump  Expolled,  Postmarks  Knock,  Are  We  F airly s  Rep- 
resented?, Solomon  Silent  reading,  Appletree  Bearstone,  I  know  a 
Washerwoman,  Hospitals,  As  I  was  Walking,  There  is  Oney one's 
House  in  Dreamcolohour,  Battle  of  Waterloo,  Colours,  Eggs  in  the 
Bush,  Habberdasherisher,  Telling  your  Dreams,  Whats  the  Time, 
Nap,  Ducking  Mammy,  Last  Man  Standing,  Heali  Baboon  and  the 
Forky  Theagues,  Fickleyes  and  Futilears,  Handmarried  but  once  in 
my  Life  and  Vll  never  commit  such  a  Sin  agin^  Zip  Cooney  Candy, 
Turkey  in  the  Straw,  This  is  the  W iy  we  sow  the  Seed  of  a  long  and 
lusty  Morning,  Hops  of  Fun  at  Milikens  Make,  I  seen  the  Tooth- 
brush with  Pat  Farrel,  Here's  the  Fat  to  graie  the  Priest  s  Boots, 
When  his  Steam  was  like  a  Raimbrandt  round  Mac  Garvey, 

No  w  it  is  notoriously  known  how  on  that  surprisingly  bludgeony 
Unity  Sunday  when  the  grand  germogall  allstar  bout  was  harrily 
the  rage  between  our  weltingtoms  extraordinary  and  our  petty- 
thicks  the  marshalaisy  and  Irish  eyes  of  welcome  were  smiling 
daggers  down  their  backs,  when  the  roth,  vice  and  blause  met  the 
noyr  blank  and  rogues  and  the  grim  white  and  cold  bet  the  black 
fighting  tans,  categorically  unimperatived  by  the  maxims,  a  rank 
funk  getting  the  better  of  him,  the  scut  in  a  bad  fit  of  pyjamas 
fied  like  a  leveret  for  his  bare  lives,  to  Talviland,  ahone  ahaza,  pur- 
sued by  the  scented  curses  of  all  the  village  belles  and,  without 
having  struck  one  blow,  (pig  stole  on  him  was  lust  he  lagging  it 
was  becaused  dust  he  shook)  kuskykorked  himself  up  tight  in 
his  inkbattle  house,  badly  the  worse  for  boosegas,  there  to  stay 
in  afar  for  the  life,  where,  as  there  was  not  a  moment  to  be  lost, 
after  he  had  boxed  around  with  his  fortepiano  till  he  was  whole 
bach  bamp  him  and  bump  him  blues,  he  collapsed  carefully  under 
a  bedtick  from  Schwitzer's,  his  face  enveloped  into  a  dead  war- 
rior's telemac,  with  a  lullobaw's  somnbomnet  and  a  whotwater- 

176 


wottle  at  his  feet  to  stoke  his  energy  of  waiting,  moaning  feebly, 
in  monkmarian  monotheme,  but  tarned  long  and  then  a  nation 
louder,  while  engaged  in  swallowing  from  a  large  ampullar,  that 
his  pawdry's  purgatory  was  more  than  a  nigger  bloke  could  bear, 
hemiparalysed  by  the  tong  warfare  and  all  the  shemozzle,  {Daily 
Maily^fullup  Lace!  Holy  Maly,  Mothelup  Joss!)  his  cheeks  and 
trousers  changing  colour  every  time  a  gat  croaked. 

How  is  that  for  low,  laities  and  gentlenuns?  Why,  dog  of  the 
Crostiguns,  whole  continents  rang  with  this  Kairokorran  low- 
ness!  Sheols  of  houris  in  chems  upon  divans,  (revolted  Stellas 
vespertine  vesamong  them)  at  a  bare  (O !)  mention  of  the  scaly 
rybald  exclaimed:  Poisse! 

But  would  anyone,  short  of  a  madhouse,  believe  it?  Neither  of 
those  clean  little  cherubum,  Nero  or  Nobookisonester  himself, 
ever  nursed  such  a  spoiled  opinion  of  his  monstrous  marvellosity 
as  did  this  mental  and  moral  defective  (here  perhaps  at  the 
vanessance  of  his  lownest)  who  was  known  to  grognt  rather  than 
gunnard  upon  one  occasion,  while  drinking  heavily  of  spirits  to 
that  interlocutor  a  latere  and  private  privysuckatary  he  used  to 
pal  around  with,  in  the  kavehazs,  one  Davy  Browne-Nowlan,  his 
heavenlaid  twin,  (this  hambone  dogpoet  pseudoed  himself  under 
the  hangname  he  gave  himself  of  Bethgelert)  in  the  porchway  of 
a  gipsy's  bar  (Shem  always  blaspheming,  so  holy  writ,  Billy,  he 
would  try,  old  Belly,  and  pay  this  one  manjack  congregant  of 
his  four  soups  every  lass  of  nexmouth,  Bolly,  so  sure  as  thair's  a 
tail  on  a  commet,  as  a  taste  for  storik's  fortytooth,  that  is  to 
stay,  to  listen  out,  ony  twenny  minnies  moe,  Bully,  his  Ballade 
Imaginaire  which  was  to  be  dubbed  JVinCy  Woman  and  JVater- 
.  clocks^  or  How  a  Guy  Finks  and  Fawkes  When  He  Is  Going  Batty ^ 
by  Maistre  Sheames  de  la  Plume,  some  most  dreadful  stuff  in  a 
murderous  mirrorhand)  that  he  was  avoopf  (parn  me!)  aware 
of  no  other  shaggspick,  other  Shakhisbeard,  either  prexactly 
unlike  his  polar  andthisishis  or  procisely  the  seem  as  woops 
(parn!)  as  what  he  fancied  or  guessed  the  sames  as  he  was  him- 
self and  that,  greet  scoot,  duckings  and  thuggery,  though  he  was 
foxed  fux  to  fux  like  a  bunnyboy  rodger  with  all  the  teashop 

177 


lionses  of  Lumdrum  hivanhoesed  up  gagainst  him,  being  a  lapsis 
linquo  with  a  ruvidubb  shortartempa,  bad  cad  dad  fad  sad  mad 
nad  vanhaty  bear,  die  consciquenchers  of  casuality  prepestered 
crusswords  in  postposition,  scruff,  scruffer,  scrufferumurraimost 
andallthatsortofthing,  if  reams  stood  to  reason  and  his  lanka- 
livline  lasted  he  would  wipe  alley  english  spooker,  multapho- 
niaksically  spuking,  off  the  face  of  the  erse. 

After  the  thorough  fright  he  got  that  bloody,  Swithun's  day, 
though  every  doorpost  in  muchtried  Lucalizod  was  smeared  with 
generous  erstborn  gore  and  every  free  for  all  cobbleway  slippery 
with  the  bloods  of  heroes,  crying  to  Welkins  for  others,  and 
noahs  and  cul  verts  agush  with  tears  of  joy,  our  low  waster  never 
had  the  common  baalamb's  pluck  to  stir  out  and  about  the  com- 
pound while  everyone  else  of  the  torchlit  throng,  slashers  and 
sliced  alike,  mobbu  on  massa,  waaded  and  baaded  around,  yamp- 
yam  pampyam,  chanting  the  Gillooly  chorus,  from  the  Monster 
Book  of  Paltryattic  Puetrie,  0 pura  e  pia  bella!  in  junk  et  sampam 
or  in  secular  sinkalarum,  heads  up,  on  his  bonafide  avocation  (the 
little  folk  creeping  on  all  fours  to  their  natural  school  treat  but 
childishly  gleeful  when  a  stray  whizzer  sang  out  intermediately) 
and  happy  belongers  to  the  fairer  sex  on  their  usual  quest  for 
higher  things,  but  vying  with  Lady  Smythe  to  avenge  Mac- 
Jobber,  went  stonestepping  with  their  bickerrstaffs  on  educated 
feet,  plinkity  plonk,  across  the  sevenspan  ponte  id  colori  set  up 
over  the  slop  after  the  war-to-end  war  by  Messrs  a  charitable 
government  for  the  only  once  (dia  dose  Finnados !)  he  did  take 
a  tompip  peepestrella  throug  a  threedraw  eighteen  hawkspower 
durdicky  telescope,  luminous  to  larbourd  only  like  the  lamps  in 
Nassaustrass,  out  of  his  westernmost  keyhole,  spitting  at  the 
impenetrablum  wetter,  (and  it  was  porcoghastly  that  outumn)  with 
an  eachway  hope  in  his  shivering  soul,  as  he  prayed  to  the  cloud 
Incertitude,  of  finding  out  for  himself,  on  akkount  of  all  the 
kules  in  Kroukaparka  or  oving  to  all  the  kodseoggs  in  Kalatavala, 
whether  true  conciliation  was  forging  ahead  or  falling  back  after 
the  celestious  intemperance  and,  for  Duvvelsache,  why,  with  his 
see  me  see  and  his  my  see  a  corves  and  liis  frokerfoskerfuskar 

178 


layen  loves  in  meeingseeing,  he  got  the  charm  of  his  optical 
life  when  he  found  himself  {hie  sunt  lennonesf)  at  pointblank 
range  blinking  down  the  barrel  of  an  irregular  revolver  of 
the  bulldog  with  a  purpose  pattern,  handled  by  an  unknown 
quarreler  who,  supposedly,  had  been  told  off  to  shade  and 
shoot  shy  Shem  should  the  shit  show  his  shiny  shnout  out 
awhile  to  look  facts  in  their  face  before  being  hosed  and  creased 
(uprip  and  jack  him!)  by  six  or  a  dozen  of  the  gayboys. 

What,  para  Saom  Plaom,  in  the  names  of  Deucalion  and 
Pyrrha,  and  the  incensed  privy  and  the  licensed  pantry  gods 
and  Stator  and  Victor  and  Kutt  and  Runn  and  the  whole  mesa 
redonda  of  Lorencao  Otulass  in  convocacaon,  was  this  dis- 
interestingly  low  human  type,  this  Calumnious  Column  of 
Cloaxity,  this  Bengalese  Beacon  of  Biloxity,  this  Annamite  Aper 
of  Atroxity,  really  at,  it  will  be  precise  to  quarify,  for  he  seems 
in  a  badbad  case? 

The  answer,  to  do  all  the  diddies  in  one  dedal,  would  sound: 
from  pulling  himself  on  his  most  flavoured  canal  the  huge  chest- 
house  of  his  elders  (the  Popapreta^  and  some  navico,  navvies!) 
he  had  flickered  up  and  flinnered  down  into  a  drug  and  drunkery 
addict,  growing  megalomane  of  a  loose  past.  This  explains  the 
litany  of  septuncial  lettertrumpets  honorific,  highpitched,  erudite, 
neoclassical,  which  he  so  loved  as  patricianly  to  manuscribe  after 
his  name.  It  would  have  diverted,  if  ever  seen,  the  shuddersome 
spectacle  of  this  semidemented  zany  amid  the  inspissated  grime 
of  his  glaucous  den  making  believe  to  read  his  usylessly  unread- 
able Blue  Book  of  Eccles,  edition  de  tenhhres^  (even  yet  sighs  the 
Most  Different,  Dr.  Poindejenk,  authorised  bowdler  and  censor, 
it  can't  be  repeated!)  turning  over  three  sheets  at  a  wind,  telling 
himself  delightedly,  no  espellor  mor  so,  that  every  splurge  on  the 
vellum  he  blundered  over  was  an  aisling  vision  more  gorgeous 
than  the  one  before  t.i.t.s.,  a  roseschelle  cottage  by  the  sea  for 
nothing  for  ever,  a  ladies  tryon  hosiery  raffle  at  liberty,  a  sewer- 
ful  of  guineagold  wine  with  brancomongepadenopie  and  sick- 
cylinder  oysters  worth  a  billion  a  bite,  an  entire  operahouse 
(there  was  to  be  stamping  room  only  in  the  prompter's  box  and 

179 


everthemore  his  queque  kept  swelling)  of  enthusiastic  noble- 
women flinging  every  coronetcrimsoned  stitch  they  had  ofF  at 
his  probscenium,  one  after  the  others,  inamagoaded  into  ajustil- 
loosing  themselves,  in  their  gaiety  pantheomime,  when,  egad,  sir, 
acordant  to  all  acountstrick,  he  squealed  the  topsquall  im  Deal 
Lil  Shemlockup  Yellin  (geewhiz,  jew  ear  that  far!  soap  ewer! 
loutgout  of  sabaous!  juice  like  a  boyd!)  for  fully  five  minutes,  in- 
finitely better  than  Baraton  Mc  Gluckin  with  a  scrumptious  cocked 
hat  and  three  green,  cheese  and  tangerine  trinity  plumes  on  the 
right  handle  side  of  his  amarellous  head,  a  coat  macfarlane  (the 
kerssest  cut,  you  understand?)  a  sponiard's  digger  at  his  ribs, 
{Alfaiate  punxii)  an  azulblu  blowsheet  for  his  blousebosom 
blossom  and  a  dean's  crozier  that  he  won  from  Cardinal  Lin- 
dundarri  and  Cardinal  Carchingarri  and  Cardinal  Loriotuli  and 
Cardinal  Occidentaccia  (ah  ho!)  in  the  dearby  darby  doubled  for 
falling  first  over  the  hurdles,  madam,  in  the  odder  hand,  a.a.t.s.o.t., 
but  what  with  the  murky  light,  the  botchj_£rint,  the  tattered 
coyer,  the  jigjagged  page,  the  fumbling  fingers,  the  foxtrotting 
fleas,  the  lieabed  lice,  the  scum  on  his  tongue,  the  drop  in  his 
eye,  the  lump  in  his  throat,  the  drink  in  his  pottle,  the  itch  in  his 
palm,  the  wail  of  his  wind,  the  grief  from  his  breath,  the  fog  of 
his  mindfag,  the  buzz  in  his  braintree,  the  tic  of  his  conscience, 
the  height  up  his  rage,  the  gush  down  his  fundament,  the  fire 
in  his  gorge,  the  tickle  of  his  tail,  the  bane  in  his  bullugs,  the 
squince  in  his  suil,  the  rot  in  his  eater,  the  ycho  in  his  earer, 
the  totters  of  his  toes,  the  tetters  on  his  tumtytum,  the  rats  in  his 
garret,  the  bats  in  his  belfry,  the  budgerigars  and  bumbosolom 
beaubirds,  the  hullabaloo  and  the  dust  in  his  ears  since  it  took  him 
a  month  to  steal  a  march  he  was  hardset  to  mumorise  more  than 
a  word  a  week.  Hake's  haulin!  Hook's  fisk!  Can  you  beat  it? 
Whawe!  I  say,  can  you  bait  it?  Was  there  ever  heard  of  such 
lowdown  blackguardism?  Positively  it  woolies  one  to  think 
over  it. 

Yet  the  bumpersprinkler  used  to  boast  aloud  alone  to  himself 
with  a  haccent  on  it  when  Mynfadher  was  a  boer  constructor  and 
Hoy  was  a  lexical  student,  parole,  and  corrected  with  the  black- 

i8o 


oia\ 


r 


board  (trying  to  copy  the  stage  Englesemen  he  broughts  their 
house  down  on,  shouting:  Bravure,  surr  Chorles!  Letter  purfect! 
Culossal,  Loose  Wallor!  Spache!)  how  he  had  been  toed  out  of 
all  the  schicker  families  of  the  klondykers  from  Pioupioureich, 
Swabspays,  the  land  of  Nod,  Shruggers*  Country,  Pension 
Danubierhome  and  Barbaropolis,  who  had  settled  and  stratified 
in  the  capital  city  after  its  hebdomodary  metropoliarchialisation 
as  sunblistered,  moonplastered,  gory,  wheedling,  joviale,  litche- 
rous  and  full,  ordered  off  the  gorgeous  premises  in  most  cases  on 
account  of  his  smell  which  all  cookmaids  eminently  objected  to 
as  ressembling  the  bombinubble  puzzo  that  welled  out  of  the 
pozzo.  Instead  of  chuthoring  those  model  households  plain 
wholesome  pothooks  (a  thing  he  never  possessed  of  his  Nigerian 
own)  what  do  you  think  Vulgariano  did  but  study  with  stolen  ( 
fruit  how  cutely  to  copy  all  their  various  styles  of  signature  so  aS|' 
one  day  to  utter  an  epical  forged  cheque  on  the  public  for  his  own' 
private  profit  until,  as  just  related,  the  Dustbin's  United  Scullery- 
maid's  and  Househelp's  Sorority,  better  known  as  Sluttery's 
Mowlted  Futt,  turned  him  down  and  assisted  nature  by  unitedly 
shoeing  the  source  of  annoyance  out  of  the  place  altogether  and 
taytotally  on  the  heat  of  the  moment,  holding  one  another's 
gonk  (for  no-one,  hound  or  scrublady,  not  even  the  Turk,  un- 
greekable  in  purscent  of  the  armenable,  dared  whiff  the  polecat 
at  close  range)  and  making  some  pointopointing  remarks  as  they 
done  so  at  the  perfects  of  the  Sniffey,  your  honour,  aboon  the 
lyow  why  a  stunk,  mister. 

[Jymes  wishes  to  hear  from  wearers  of  abandoned  female  cos- 
tumes, gratefully  received,  wadmel  jumper,  rather  full  pair  of 
culottes  and  onthergarmenteries,  to  start  city  life  together.  His 
jymes  is  out  of  job,  would  sit  and  write.  He  has  lately  commited 
one  of  the  then  commandments  but  she  will  now  assist.  Superior 
built,  domestic,  regular  layer.  Also  got  the  boot.  He  appreciates 
it.  Copies.  ABORTISEMENT.] 

One  cannot  even  begin  to  post  figure  out  a  statuesquo  ante 
as  to  how  slow  in  reality  the  excommunicated  Drumcondriac, 
nate  Hamis,  really  was.  Who  can  say  how  many  pseudostylic 

rSi 


shamiana,  how  few  or  how  many  of  the  most  venerated  public 
impostures,  how  very  many  piously  forged  palimpsests  slipped 
in  the  first  place  by  this  morbid  process  from  his  pelagiarist  pen? 

Be  that  as  it  may,  but  for  that  light  phantastic  of  his  gnose's 
glow  as  it  slid  lucifericiously  within  an  inch  of  its  page  (he  would 
touch  at  its  from  time  to  other,  the  red  eye  of  his  fear  in 
saddishness,  to  ensign  the  colours  by  the  beerlitz  in  his  mathness 
and  his  educandees  to  outhue  to  themselves  in  the  cries  of  girl- 
glee:  gember!  inkware!  chonchambre!  cinsero!  zinnzabar!  tinc- 
ture and  gin!)  Nibs  never  would  have  quilled  a  seriph  to 
sheepskin.  By  that  rosy  lampoon's  effluvious  burning  and  with 
help  of  the  simulchronic  flush  in  his  pann  (a  ghinee  a  ghirk  he 
ghets  there!)  he  scrabbled  and  scratched  and  scriobbled  and 
skrevened  nameless  shamelessness  about  everybody  ever  he  met, 
even  sharing  a  precipitation  under  the  idlish  tarriers'  umbrella 
of  a  showerproof  wall,  while  all  over  up  and  down  the  four 
margins  of  this  rancid  Shem  stuff  the  evilsmeller  (who  was 
devoted  to  Uldfadar  Sardanapalus)  used  to  stipple  endlessly 
inartistic  portraits  of  himself  in  the  act  of  reciting  old 
Nichiabelli's  monolook  interyerear  Harmo^  o  Nonanno^  accel 
brubblemmdiS^  ser  Autore,  q.e.d.,  a  heartbreakingly  handsome 
young  paolo  with  love  lyrics  for  the  goyls  in  his  eyols,  a  plain- 
tiff's tanner  vuice,  a  jucal  inkome  of  one  hundred  and  thirtytwo 
dranchmas  per  yard  from  Broken  Hill  stranded  estate,  Came- 
breech  mannings,  cutting  a  great  dash  in  a  brandnew  two  guinea 
dress  suit  and  a  burled  hogsford  hired  for  a  Fursday  evenin 
merry  pawty,  anna  loavely  long  pair  of  inky  Italian  moostarshes 
glistering  with  boric  vaseline  and  frangipani.  Puh!  How  un- 
whisperably  so! 

The  house  O'Shea  or  O'Shame,  Quivapieno^  known  as  the 
Haunted  Inkbottle,  no  number  Brimstone  Walk,  Asia  in  Ireland, 
as  it  was  infested  with  the  raps,  with  his  penname  SHUT  sepia- 
scraped  on  the  doorplate  and  a  blind  of  black  sailcloth  over  its 
wan  phwinshogue,  in  which  the  soulcontracted  son  of  the  secret 
cell  groped  through  life  at  the  expense  of  the  taxpayers,  dejected 
into  day  and  night  with  Jesuit  bark  and  bitter  bite,  calico- 

182 


J 


hydrants  of  zolfor  and  scoppialamina  by  full  and  forty  Queasi- 
sanos,  every  day  in  everyone's  way  more  exceeding  in  violent 
abuse  of  self  and  others,  was  the  worst,  it  is  hoped,  even  in  our 
western  playboyish  world  for  pure  mousefarm  filth.  You  brag 
of  your  brass  castle  or  your  tyled  house  in  ballyfermont?  Niggs, 
niggs  and  niggs  again.  For  this  was  a  stinksome  inkenstink,  quite 
puzzonal  to  the  wrottel.  Smatterafact,  Angles  aftanon  browsing 
there  thought  not  Edam  reeked  more  rare.  My  wud !  The  warped 
flooring  of  the  lair  and  soundconducting  walls  thereof,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  uprights  and  imposts,  were  persianly  literatured 
with  burst  loveletters,  telltale  stories,  stickyback  snaps,  doubtful 
eggshells,  bouchers,  flints,  borers,  puffers,  amygdaloid  almonds, 
rindless  raisins,  alphybettyformed  verbage,  vivlical  viasses,  om- 
piter  dictas,  visus  umbique,  ahems  and  ahahs,  imeffible  tries  at 
speech  unasyllabled,  you  owe  mes,  eyoldhyms,  fluefoul  smut, 
fallen  lucifers,  vestas  which  had  served,  showered  ornaments, 
borrowed  brogues,  reversibles  jackets,  blackeye  lenses,  family 
jars,  falsehair  shirts.  Godforsaken  scapulars,  neverworn  breeches, 
cutthroat  ties,  counterfeit  franks,  best  intentions,  curried  notes, 
upset  latten  tintacks,  unused  mill  and  stumpling  stones,  twisted 
quills,  painful  digests,  magnifying  wineglasses,  solid  objects  cast 
at  goblins,  once  current  puns,  quashed  quotatoes,  messes  of  mot- 
tage,  unquestionable  issue  papers,  seedy  ejaculations,  limerick 
damns,  crocodile  tears,  spilt  ink,  blasphematory  spits,  stale  shest- 
nuts,  schoolgirls',  young  ladies',  milkmaids',  washerwomen's, 
shopkeepers'  wives,  merry  widows',  ex  nuns',  vice  abbess's,  pro 
virgins',  super  whores',  silent  sisters',  Charleys'  aunts',  grand- 
mothers', mothers'-in-laws',  fostermothers',  godmothers'  garters, 
tress  clippings  from  right,  lift  and  cintrum,  worms  of  snot, 
toothsome  pickings,  cans  of  Swiss  condensed  bilk,  highbrow 
lotions,  kisses  from  the  antipodes,  presents  from  pickpockets, 
borrowed  plumes,  relaxable  handgrips,  princess  promises,  lees  of 
whine,  deoxodised  carbons,  convertible  collars,  diviliouker 
doffers,  broken  wafers,  unloosed  shoe  latchets,  crooked  strait 
waistcoats,  fresh  horrors  from  Hades,  globules  of  mercury, 
undeleted  glete,  glass  eyes  for  an  eye,  gloss  teeth  for  a  tooth, 

183 


war  moans,  special  sighs,  longsufFerings  of  longstanding,  ahs  ohs 
Guis  sis  jas  jos  gias  neys  thaws  sos,  yeses  and  yeses  and  yeses,  to 
which,  if  one  has  the  stomach  to  add  the  breakages,  upheavals 
distortions,  inversions  of  all  this  chambermade  music  one  stands, 
given  a  grain  of  goodwill,  a  fair  chance  of  actually  seeing  the 
whirling  dervish.  Tumult,  son  of  Thunder,  self  exiled  in  upon 
his  ego,  a  nightlong  a  shaking  betwixtween  white  or  reddr  haw- 
rors,  noondayterrorised  to  skin  and  bone  by  an  ineluctable  phan- 
tom (may  the  Shaper  have  mercery  on  him!)  writing  the  mystery 
of  himsel  in  furniture. 

Of  course  our  low  hero  was  a  self  valeter  by  choice  of  need  so 
up  he  got  up  whatever  is  meant  by  a  Stourbridge  clay  kitchen- 
ette and  lithargogalenu  fowlhouse  for  the  sake  of  akes  (the 
umpple  does  not  fall  very  far  from  the  dumpertree)  which  the 
moromelodious  jigsmith,  in  defiance  of  the  Uncontrollable  Birth 
Preservativation  (Game  and  Poultry)  Act,  playing  lallaryrook 
cookerynook,  by  the  dodginess  of  his  lentern,  brooled  and  cocked 
and  potched  in  an  athanor,  whites  and  yolks  and  yilks  and  whotes 
to  the  frulling  fredonnance  of  Mas  blanca  que  la  hlanca  hermana 
and  Amarilla^  muy  bien^  with  cinnamon  and  locusts  and  wild  bees- 
wax and  liquorice  and  Carrageen  moss  and  blaster  of  Barry's  and 
Asther's  mess  and  Huster's  micture  and  Yellownan's  embrocation 
and  Pinkingtone's  patty  and  Stardust  and  sinner's  tears,  acuredent 
to  Sharadan's  Art  of  Panning^  chanting,  for  all  regale  to  the  like 
of  the  legs  he  left  behind  with  Litty  fun  Letty  fan  Leven,  his 
cantraps  of  fermented  words,  abracadabra  calubra  culorum,  (his 
oewfs  a  la  Madame  Gabrielle  de  I'Eglise,  his  avgs  a  la  Mistress 
B.  de  B.  Meinfelde,  his  eiers  Usquadmala  a  la  pomme  de  ciel, 
his  uoves,  oves  and  uves  a  la  Sulphate  de  Soude,  his  ochiuri 
sowtay  sowmmonay  a  la  Monseigneur,  his  soufflosion  of  oogs 
with  somekat  on  toyast  a  la  Mere  Puard,  his  Poggadovies  alia 
Fenella,  his  Frideggs  a  la  Tricareme)  in  what  was  meant  for  a 
closet  (Ah  ho!  If  only  he  had  listened  better  to  the  four  masters 
that  infanted  him  Father  Mathew  and  Le  Pere  Noble  and  Pastor 
Lucas  and  Padre  Aguilar  —  not  forgetting  Lay  teacher  Baudwin! 
Ah  ho!)  His  costive  Satan's  antimonian  manganese  limolitmious 

184 


nature  never  needed  sucli  an  alcove  so,  when  Robber  and  Mum- 
sell,  the  pulpic  dictators,  on  the  nudgment  of  their  legal  advisers, 
Messrs  Codex  and  Podex,  and  under  his  own  benefiction  of  their 
pastor  Father  Flammeus  Falconer,  boycotted  him  of  all  mutton- 
suet  candles  and  romeruled  stationery  for  any  purpose,  he  winged 
away  on  a  wildgoup's  chase  across  the  kathartic  ocean  and  made 
synthetic  ink  and  sensitive  paper  for  his  own  end  out  of  his  wit's 
waste.  You  ask,  in  Sam  Hill,  how?  Let  manner  and  matter  of  this 
for  these  our  sporting  times  be  cloaked  up  in  the  language  of 
blushfed  porporates  that  an  Anglican  ordinal,  not  reading  his 
own  rude  dunsky  tunga,  may  ever  behold  the  brand  of  scarlet 
on  the  brow  of  her  of  Babylon  and  feel  not  the  pink  one  in  his 
own  damned  cheek. 

Primum  opifexy  alius  prosator,  ad  terram  viviparam  et  cuncti- 
potentem  sine  ullo  pudore  nec  venia,  suscepto  pluviali  atque  discinctis 
periiomatisy  natibus  nudis  uti  nati  fuissenty  sese  adpropinquans , 
flens  et  gemens^  in  manum  suam  evacuavit  (highly  prosy,  crap  in  his 
hand,  sorry  ]) ^  postea^  animale  nigro  exoneratus^  classicum  pulsans^ 
stercus  proprium,  quod  appellavit  deiectiones  suas,  in  vas  olim 
honorabile  tristitiae  posuit,  eodem  sub  invocatione  fratrorum  gemino- 
Tum  Medardi  et  Godardi  laete  ac  melliflue  minxit^  psalmum  qui 
incipit:  Lingua  mea  calamus  scribae  velociter  scribentis:  magna  voce 
cantitans  (did  a  piss,  says  he  was  dejected,  asks  to  be  exonerated), 
demum  ex  stercore  turpi  cum  divi  Ononis  iucunditate  mixto,  cocto, 
frigorique  exposito,  encaustum  sibi  fecit  indelibile  (faked  O' Ryan's, 
the  indelible  ink). 

Then,  pious  Eneas,  conformant  to  the  fulminant  firman  which 
