tsingirillies'  zyngarettes,  while  Woodbine  Willie,  so  popiular 
with  the  poppyrossies,  our  Chorney  Choplain,  blued  the  air. 
Sczlanthas!  Banzaine!  Bissbasses!  S.  Pivorandbowl.  And  we  all 
tuned  in  to  hear  the  topmast  noviality.  Up  the  revels  drown  the 
rinks  and  almistips  all  round!  Paddy  Bonhamme  he  vives!  En- 
core! And  tig  for  tag.  Togatogtug,  My  droomodose  days  Y  loved 
you  abover  all  the  strest.  Blowhole  brasshat  and  boy  with  his 
boots  off  and  the  butch  of  our  bunch  and  all.  It  was  buckoo 
bonzer,  beleeme.  I  was  a  bare  prive  without  my  doglegs  but  I 
did  not  give  to  one  humpenny  dump,  wingh  or  wangh,  touching 
those  thusengaged  slavey  generales  of  Tanah  Kornalls,  the 
meelisha's  deelishas,  pronouncing  their  very  flank  movemens 
in  sunpictorsbosk.  Baghus  the  whatwar!  I  could  always  take  good 
cover  of  myself  and,  eyedulls  or  earwakers,  preyers  for  rain  or 
cominations,  I  did  not  care  three  tanker's  hoots,  ('sham!  hem! 
or  chafHt!)  for  any  feelings  from  my  lifeprivates  on  their  reptro- 
grad  leanins  because  I  have  Their  Honours  booth  my  respectables 
soeurs  assistershood  off  Lyndhurst  Terrace,  the  puttih  Misses 
Celana  Dalems,  and  she  in  vinting  her  angurr  can  belle  the  troth 
on  her  alliance  and  I  know  His  Heriness,  my  respeaktoble  me- 
dams  culonelle  on  Mellay  Street,  Lightnints  Gundhur  Sawabs, 
and  they  would  never  as  the  aimees  of  servation  let  me  down. 
Not  on  your  bludger  life,  touters!  No  peeping,  pimpadoors! 
And,  by  Jova,  I  never  went  wrong  nor  let  him  doom  till,  risky 
wark  rasky  wolk,  at  the  head  of  the  wake,  up  come  stumblebum 

351 


(ye  olde  cottemptable!),  his  urssian  gemenal,  in  his  scutt's  rudes 
unreformed  and  he  went  before  him  in  that  nemcon  enchelonce 
with  the  same  old  domstoole  story  and  his  upleave  the  fallener 
as  is  greatly  to  be  petted  (whitesides  do  his  beard !)  and  I  seen  his 
brichashert  offensive  and  his  boortholomas  vadnhammaggs  vise 
a  vise  them  scharlot  runners  and  how  they  gave  love  to  him 
and  how  he  took  the  ward  from  us  (odious  the  fly  fly  flurtation 
of  his  him  and  hers!  Just  mairmaid  maddeling  it  was  it  he  was!) 
and,  my  oreland  for  a  rolvever,  sord,  by  the  splunthers  of  colt 
and  bung  goes  the  enemay  the  Percy  rally  got  me,  messg^r,  (as 
true  as  theirs  an  Almagnian  Gothabobus!)  to  blow  the  grand  off 
his  aceupper.  Thistake  it 's  meest!  And  after  meath  the  dulwich. 
We  insurrectioned  and,  be  the  procuratress  of  the  hory  synnotts, 
before  he  could  tell  pullyirragun  to  parrylewis,  I  shuttm,  missus, 
like  a  wide  sleever!  Hump  to  dump!  Tumbleheaver! 

TAFF  {camelsensing  that  sonce  they  have  given  Iron  a  nuhlan 
the  volkar  boastsung  is  heading  to  sea  vermelhion  but  too  wellbred 
not  to  ignore  the  umiemlianess  of  his  rifaVs  preceedings^  in  an  effort 
towards  autosotorisation^  effaces  himself  in  favour  of  the  idiology 
alwise  behounding  his  lumpy  hump  off  homosodalism  which  means 
that  if  he  has  lain  amain  to  lolly  his  liking -cabronne!  -he  may  pops 
lilly  a  young  one  to  his  herth  -  combrune  -)  Oholy  rasher,  I'm  be- 
liever! And  Oho  bullyclaver  of  ye,  bragadore-gunneral !  The 
grand  ohold  spider!  It  is  a  name  to  call  to  him  Umsturdum  Vonn! 
Ah,  you  were  shutter  reshottus  and  sieger  besieged.  Aha  race  of 
fiercemarchands  counterination  oho  of  shorpshoopers. 

BUTT  {miraculising  into  the  Dann  Deafir  warcry,  his  bigotes 
bristling^  as,  jittinju  triggity  shittery  pet,  he  shouts  his  thump  and 
feeh  fauh  foul  finngures  up  the  heighohs  of  their  ahsl)  Bluddy- 
muddymuzzle!  The  buckbeshottered!  He'll  umbozzle  no  more 
graves  nor  horne  nor  haunder,  lou  garou,  for  gayl  geselles  in 
dead  men's  hills!  Kaptan  (backsights  to  his  bared!).  His  Cum- 
bulent  Embulence,  the  frustate  fourstar  Russkakruscam,  Dom 
Allaf  O'Khorwan,  connundurumchuff. 

TAFF  (who,  asbestas  can,  wi^  the  healps  of  gosh  and  his  blu^id 
maikar,  has  been  sulphuring  to  himsalves  all  the  pungataries 


II 

I 


t- 


I 


of  sin  praktice  in  failing  to  furrow  theogonies  of  the  dommed). 
Trisseme,  the  mangoat!  And  the  name  of  the  Most  Marsiful, 
the  Aweghost,  the  Gragious  One!  In  sobber  sooth  and  in  souber 
civiles?  And  to  the  dirtiment  of  the  curtailment  of  his  all  of  man? 
Notshoh? 

BUTT  [maomant  scoffin^  hut  apoxyomenously  deturbaned  but 
thems  bleachin  banes  will  be  after  making  a  bashmans  haloday  out 
of  the  euphorious  hagiohygiecynicism  of  his  die  and  be  diademmed). 
Yastsar!  In  sabre  tooth  and  sobre  saviles!  Senonnevero!  That 
he  leaves  nyet  is  my  grafe.  He  deared  me  to  it  and  he  dared  me 
do  it,  and  bedattle  I  didaredonit  as  Cocksnark  of  Killtork  can 
tell  and  Ussur  Ursussen  of  the  viktaurious  onrush  with  all  the 
rattles  in  his  arctic!  As  bold  and  as  madhouse  a  bull  in  a  meadows. 
Knout  Knittrick  Kinkypeard!  Olefoh,  the  sourd  of  foemoe 
times!  Unknun!  For  when  meseemim,  and  tolfoklokken  rolland 
allover  ourloud's  lande,  beheaving  up  that  sob  of  tunf  for  to 
claimhis,  for  to  wollpimsolff,  puddywhuck.  Ay,  and  untuoning 
his  culothone  in  an  exitous  erseroyal  Deo  Jupto.  At  that  instuUt 
to  Igorladns!  Prronto!  I  gave  one  dobblenotch  and  I  ups  with 
my  crozzier.  Mirrdo!  With  my  how  on  armer  and  hits  leg  an 
arrow  cockshock  rockrogn.  Sparro ! 

\The  abnihilisation  of  the  etym  by  the  grisning  of  the  grosning 
of  the  grinder  of  the  grunder  of  the  first  lord  of  Hurtreford  ex- 
polodotonates  through  Parsuralia  with  an  ivanmorinthorrorumble 
fragoromboassity  amidwhiches  genejoL  uttermosts  confussion  are 
perceivable  moletons  shaping  with  mulicules  while  Coventry 
plumpkins  f airly gosmother themselves  in  the  Landaunelegants 
of  Pinkadindy,  Similar  scenatas  are  proj ec tills ed from  Hullulullu^ 
Bawlawayo,  empyreal  Raum  and  mordern  Atems.  They  were 
precisely  the  twdves^f^clocks^  noon  minutes^  none  seconds,  //.  +  O  f 
At  someseat  of  Oldanelangs  Konguerrig,  by  dawnybreak  in  ^  /O^^oq 
Aira.] 

TAFF  (skimperskamper^  his  wools  gatherings  all  over  cromlin 
what  with  the  birstol  boys  artheynes  and  is  it  her  tour  and  the 
crackery  of  the  fullfour  fivefirearms  and  the  crockery  of  their  dam- 

353 


dam  domdom  chumbers).  Wharall  thubulbs  uptheaires!  Shatta- 
movick? 

BUTT  {pulling  alast  stark  daniel  with  alest  doog  at  doorak  while 
too  greater  than  pardon  painfully  the  issue  of  his  mouth  diminuen- 
doing,  vility  of  vilities,  he  becomes,  allasvitally,  faint).  Shurenoff! 
Like  Faun  MacGhoul ! 

BUTT  and  TAFF  (desprot  slave  wager  and  foeman  feodal  un- 
sheckled,  now  one  and  the  same  person,  their  fight  upheld  to  right 
for  a  wee  while  being  baffled  and  tottered,  umbraged  by  the  shadow 
of  Old  Erssias  magisquammythical  mulattomilitiaman,  the  living 
by  owning  over  the  surfers  of  the  glebe  whose  sway  craven  minnions 
had  caused  to  revile,  as,  too  foul  for  hell,  under  boiling  Mauses^ 
burning  brand,  he  falls  by  GolVs  gillie,  but  keenheartened  by  the 
circuminsistence  of  the  Parkes  0' Rarely s  in  a  hurdly  gurdly  Cicilian 
concertone  of  their  fonngeena  barney  brawl,  shaken  everybothy  s 
hands,  while  S.  E,  Morehampton  makes  leave  to  E.  N.  Sheil- 
martin  after  Meetinghouse  Lanigan  has  embaraced  Vergemout 
Hall,  and,  without  falter  or  mormor  or  blathrehoot  of  sophs  terliness, 
pugnate  the  pledge  of  fiannaship,  dook  to  dook,  with  a  commonturn 
oudchd  of  fest  man  and  best  man  astoutsalliesemoutioun  palms  it 
off  like  commodity  tokens  against  a  cococancancacacanotioim). 
When  old  the  wormd  was  a  gadden  and  Anthea  first  unfoiled  her 
limbs  wanderloot  was  the  way  the  wood  wagged  where  opter 
and  apter  were  samuraised  twimbs.  They  had  their  mutthering 
ivies  and  their  murdhering  idies  and  their  mouldhering  iries  in 
that  muskat  grove  but  there'll  be  bright  plinnyflowers  in  Calo- 
mella's  cool  bowers  when  the  magpyre's  babble  towers  scorching 
and  screeching  from  the  ravenindove.  If  thees  lobed  the  sex  of 
his  head  and  mees  ates  the  seep  of  his  traublers  he's  dancing 
figgies  to  the  spittle  side  and  shoving  outs  the  soord.  And  he'll 
be  buying  buys  and  go  gulling  gells  with  his  flossim  and  jessim 
of  carm,  silk  and  honey  while  myandthys  playing  lancifer  lucifug 
and  what's  duff  as  a  bettle  for  usses  makes  coy  cosyn  corollanes* 
moues  weeter  to  wee.  So  till  butagain  budly  shoots  thon  rising 
germinal  let  bodley  chow  the  fatt  of  his  anger  and  badley  bide 
the  toil  of  his  tubb. 

354 


i 

i 


i 
I 


II 


[The  pump  and  pipe  pingers  are  ideally  reconstituted.  The 
putther  and  bowls  are  peterpacked  up.  All  the  presents  are  deter- 
mining  as  regards  for  the  future  the  howabouts  of  their  past 
absences  which  they  might  see  on  at  hearing  could  they  once  smell 
of  tastes  from  touch.  To  ought  find  a  values  for.  The  must  over- 
listingness.  When  ex  what  is  ungiven.  As  ad  where,  Stillhead, 
Blunk.] 

Shutmup.  And  bud  did  down  well  right.  And  if  he  sung  dumb 
in  his  glass  darkly  speech  lit  face  to  face  on  allaround. 

Vociferagitant.  Viceversounding.  Namely,  Abdul  Abulbul 
Amir  or  Ivan  Slavansky  Slavar.  In  alldconfusalem.  As  to  whom  the 
major  guiltfeather  pertained  it  was  Hercushiccups'  care  to  educe. 
Beauty's  bath  she's  bound  to  bind  beholders  and  pride,  his  purge, 
has  place  appoint  in  penance  and  the  law's  own  libel  lifts  and 
lames  the  low  with  the  lofty.  Be  of  the  housed !  While  the  Hersy 
Hunt  they  harrow  the  hill  for  to  rout  them  rollicking  rogues 
from,  rule  those  racketeer  romps  from,  rein  their  rockery  rides 
from.  Rambling. 

Nightclothesed,  arooned,  the  conquerods  sway.  After  their 
battle  thy  fair  bosom. 

—  That  is  too  tootrue  enough  in  Solidan's  Island  as  in  Mol- 
tern  Giaourmany  and  from  the  Amelakins  off  to  date  back  to 
land  of  engined  Egypsians,  assented  from  his  opening  before  his 
inlookers  of  where  an  oxmanstongue  stalled  stabled  the  well- 
nourished  one,  lord  of  the  seven  days,  overlord  of  sats  and  suns, 
the  sat  of  all  the  suns  which  are  in  the  ring  of  his  system  of  the 
sats  of  his  sun,  god  of  the  scuffeldfallen  skillfilledfelon,  who  (he 
contaimns)  hangsters,  who  (he  constrains)  hersirrs,  a  gain  chang- 
ful,  a  mintage  vaster,  heavy  on  shirts,  lucky  with  shifts,  the  top- 
side humpup  stummock  atween  his  showdows  fellah,  Misto  Tee- 
wiley  Spillitshops,  who  keepeth  watch  in  Khummer-Phett,  whose 
spouse  is  An-Lyph,  the  dog's  bladder,  warmer  of  his  couch  in 
fore.  We  all,  for  whole  men  is  lepers,  have  been  nobbut  won- 
terers  in  that  chill  childerness  which  is  our  true  name  after  the 
allfaulters  (mug's  luck  to  em !)  and,  bespeaking  of  love  and  lie 
detectors  in  venuvarities,  whateither  the  drugs  truth  of  it,  was 

355 


there  an  iota  of  from  the  faust  to  the  lost.  And  that  is  at  most  re- 
doubtedly  an  overthrew  of  each  and  ilkermann  of  us,  I  persuade 
myself,  before  Gow,  gentlemen,  so  true  as  this  are  my  kopfinpot 
astrode  on  these  is  my  boardsoldereds. 

It  sollecited,  grobbling  hummley,  his  roundhouse  of  seven 
orofaces,  of  all,  guiltshouters  or  crimemummers,  to  be  sayd  by, 
codnops,  advices  for,  free  of  gracies,  scamps  encloded,  com- 
petitioning  them,  if  they  had  steadied  Jura  or  when  they  had 
raced  Messafissi,  husband  of  your  wifebetter  or  bestman  botcha- 
lover  of  you  yourself,  how  comes  ever  a  body  in  our  taylorised 
world  to  selve  out  thishis,  whither  it  gives  a  primeum  nobilees 
for  our  notomise  or  naught,  the  farst  wriggle  from  the  ubivence, 
whereom  is  man,  that  old  offender,  nother  man,  wheile  he  is 
asame.  And  fullexampling.  The  pints  in  question.  With  some  by- 
spills.  And  sicsecs  to  provim  hurtig.  Soup's  on ! 

—  A  time.  And  a  find  time.  Whenin  aye  was  a  kiddling.  And 
the  tarikies  held  sowansopper.  Let  there  beam  a  frishfrey.  And 
they  sodhe  gudhe  rudhe  brodhe  wedhe  swedhe  medhe  in  the 
kanddledrum.  I  have  just  (let  us  suppraise)  been  reading  in  a 
(suppressed)  book  —  it  is  notwithstempting  by  meassures  long 
and  limited — the  latterpress  is  eminently  legligible  and  the  paper, 
so  he  eagerly  seized  upon,  has  scarsely  been  buttered  in  works  of 
previous  publicity  wholebeit  in  keener  notcase  would  I  turf  aside 
for  pastureuration.  Packen  paper  paineth  whomto  is  sacred 
scriptured  sign.  Who  straps  it  scraps  it  that  might,  if  ashed,  have 
healped.  Enough,  however,  have  I  read  of  it,  like  my  good  bedst 
friend,  to  augur  in  the  hurry  of  the  times  that  it  will  cocommend 
the  widest  circulation  and  a  reputation  coextensive  with  its  merits 
when  inthrusted  into  safe  and  pious  hands  upon  so  edifying  a 
mission  as  it,  I  can  see,  as  is  his.  It  his  ambullished  with  expurga- 
tive  plates,  replete  in  information  and  accampaigning  the  action 
passiom,  slopbang,  whizzcrash,  boomarattling  from  burst  to 
past,  as  I  have  just  been  seeing,  with  my  warmest  venerections, 
of  a  timmersome  townside  upthecountrylifer,  (Guard  place  the 
town!)  allthose  everwhalmed  upon  diat  preposterous  blank  seat, 
before  the  wordcraft  of  this  early  woodcutter,  a  master  of  vignett- 

356 


I 


iennes  and  our  findest  grobsmid  among  all  dieir  orefices,  (and, 
shukar  in  chowdar,  so  splunderdly  English!)  Mr  Aubeyron 
Birdslay.  Chiabgoodchob,  arsoncheep  and  wellwillworth  a  triat! 
Bismillafoulties.  But  the  hasard  you  asks  is  justly  ever  behind  his 
meddle  throw!  Those  sad  pour  sad  forengistanters,  dastychappy 
dustyrust!  Chaichairs.  It  is  that  something,  awe,  aurorbean  in  that 
fellow,  hamid  and  damid,  (did  he  have  but  Hugh  de  Brassey's 
beardslie  his  wear  mine  of  ancient  guised)  which  comequeers  this 
anywhat  perssian  which  we,  owe,  realisinus  with  purups  a  dard 
of  pene.  There  is  among  others  pleasons  whom  I  love  and  which 
are  favourests  to  mind,  one  which  I  have  pushed  my  finker  in  for 
the  movement  and,  but  for  my  sealring  is  none  to  hand  I  swear, 
she  is  highly  catatheristic  and  there  is  another  which  I  have 
fombly  fongered  freequuntly  and,  when  my  signet  is  on  sign 
again  I  swear,  she  is  deeply  sangnificant.  Culpo  de  Dido !  Ars  we  rj 
say  in  the  classics.  Kunstful^  we  others  said.  What  ravening  shadow ! 

What  dovely  line!  Not  the  king  of  this  age  could  richlier  eyefeast  ^  ^  

in  oreillental  longuardness  with  alternate  night  joys  of  a  thousand 
kinds  but  one  kind.  A  shahrryar  cobbler  on  me  when  I  am  lying ! 
And  whilst  (when  I  doot  my  slidjng  panel  and  I  hear  cawcaw)  I  ' -uh^ 
have  been  idylly  turmbing  over  the  loose  looves  leaflefts  jaggled 
casuallty  on  the  lamatory,  as  is  my  this  is,  as  I  must  commit 
my  lips  to  make  misface  for  misfortune,  often,  so  far  as  I  can 
chance  to  recollect  from  the  some  farnights  ago,  (so  dimsweet  is 
that  selvischdischdienence  of  to  not  to  be  able  to  be  obliged  to 
have  to  hold  further  anything  than  a  stone  his  throw's  jruit^  .c  p^coT^^p^ 
JalH)  when  I,  if  you  wil  excuse  for  me  this  informal  leading  down  ^^di^-H^ 
of  inexpressibles,  enlivened  toward  the  Author  of  Nature  by  the 
natural  sins  liggen  gobelimned  theirs  before  me,  (how  differen- 
ded  with  the  manmade  Eonochs  Cunstuntonopolies !),  weather- 
ed they  be  of  a  general  golf  stature,  assasserted,  or  blossomly 
emblushing  thems  elves  underneed  of  some  howthern  folleys, 
am  entrenched  jipxontemplating  of  myself,  wiz  my  naked  I,  for 
relieving  purposes  in  our  trurally  virvir  vergitabale  (garden)  I  ^ 
sometimes,  maybe,  what  has  justly  said  of  old  Flannagan,  a  wake 
from  this  or  huntsfurwards,  with  some  shock  (shell  I  so  render 

357 


it?)  have  (when  I  ope  my  shylight  window  and  I  see  coocoo)  a 
notion  quiet  involuptary  of  that  I  am  cadging  hapsnots  as  at 
murmurrandoms  of  distend  renations  from  ficsimilar  phases  or 
dugouts  in  the  behindscenes  of  our  earthwork  (what  rovining 
shudder!  what  deadly  loom!)  as  this  is,  at  no  spatial  time  pro- 
cessly  which  regards  to  concrude  chronology  about  which  in 
fact,  at  spite  of  I  having  belittled  myself  to  my  gay  giftname  of 
insectarian,  happy  burgages  abeyance  would  make  homesweets- 
town  hopeygoalucrey,  my  mottu  propprior,  as  I  claim,  cad's 
truck,  I  coined,  I  am  highly  pelaged  and  deeply  gluttened  to 
mind  hindmost  hearts  to  see  by  their  loudest  reports  from  my 
threespawn  bottery  parts  (shsh!)  that,  colombophile  and  corvino- 
phobe  alike,  when  I  have  remassed  me,  my  travellingself,  as  from 
Magellanic  clouds,  after  my  contractual  expenditures,  through 
the  perofficies  of  merelimb,  I,  my  good  grief,  I  am,  I  am  big 
altoogooder. 

He  beached  the  bark  of  his  tale;  and»  set  to  husband  and  vine: 
and  the  harpermaster  told  all  the  living  conservancy,  know 
Meschiameschianah,  how  that  win  a  gain  was  in  again.  Flying 
the  Perseoroyal.  Withal  aboarder,  padar  and  madar,  hal  and  sal, 
the  sens  of  Ere  with  the  duchtars  of  Iran.  Amick  amack  amock  in 
a  mucktub.  Qith  the  tou  loulous  and  the  gryffygryffygryffs,  at 
Fenegans  Wick,  the  Wildemanns.  Washed  up  whight  and  de- 
li veried  rhight.  Loud  lauds  to  his  luckhump  and  bejetties  on  jo- 
nahs!  And  they  winxed  and  wanxed  like  baillybeacons.  Till  we 
woksed  up  oldermen. 

From  whose  plultibust  preaggravated,  by  baskatchairch  theo- 
logies (there  werenighn  on  thaurity  herouns  in  that  alraschil 
arthouducks  draken),  they  were  whoalike  placed  to  say,  in  the 
matters  off  ducomans  nonbar  one,  with  bears'  respects  to  him  and 
bulls'  acknowledgments  (come  on  now,  girls!  lead  off,  O  cara, 
whichever  won  of  you  wins!  The  two  Gemuas  and  Jane  Agrah 
and  Judy  Tombuys!)  disassembling  and  taking  him  apart,  the 
slammocks,  with  discrimination  for  his  maypole  and  a  rub  in 
passing  over  his  hump,  drogueries  inaddendance,  frons,  fesces 
and  frithstool:  i)  he  hade  to  die  it,  the  beetle,  2)  he  didhithim  self, 

358 


) 


I 


hod's  fush,  3)  all  ever  the  pelican  huntered  with  truly  fond  bull- 
pen backthought  since  his  toork  human  life  where  his  personal 
low  outhired  his  taratoryism,  the  orenore  under  the  self  hide  of  his 
bessermettle,  was  forsake  in  his  chiltern  and  lumbojumbo,  4)  he 
was  like  Fintan  fore  flood  and  after  sometimes  too  damned 
merely  often  on  the  saved  side,  saw  he  was,  5)  regarding  to 
prussyattes  or  quazzyverzing  he  wassand  no  better  than  he  would 
have  been  before  he  could  have  been  better  than  what  he  warrant 
after,  6)  blood,  musk  or  haschish,  as  coked,  diamoned  or  pence- 
loid,  and  bleaching  him  naclenude  from  all  cohlorine  matter, 
down  to  a  boneash  bittstoff,  he's,  tink  fors  tank,  the  same  old 
dustamount  on  the  same  old  tincoverdull  baubleclass,  totstitty- 
winktosser  and  bogusbagwindburster,  whether  fitting  tyres  onto 
Danelope  boys  or  fluttering  flaus  for  laurettas,  whatever  the 
bucket  brigade  and  the  plug  party  says,  touchant  Arser  of  the 
Rum  Tipple  and  his  camelottery  and  lyonesslooting  but  with  a 
layaman's  brutstrenth,  by  Jacohob  and  Esahur  and  the  all  saults 
or  all  sallies,  what  we  warn  to  hear,  jeff",  is  the  woods  of  chirpsies 
cries  to  singaloo  sweecheeriode  and  sock  him  up,  the  oldcant 
rogue. 

Group  K,  /  ^ 

You  have  jest  (a  ham)  beamed  listening  through  (a  ham  pig) 
his  haulted  excerpt  from  John  Whiston's  fiveaxled  production. 
The  Coach  With  The  Six  Insides^  from  the  Tales  of  Yore  of  the 
times  gone  by  before  there  was  a  hofdking  or  a  hoovthing  or  a 
pinginapoke  in  Oreland,  all  sould.  Goes  Tory  by  Eerie  Whigs  is 
To  Become  Tintinued  in  Pearsons  Nightly  in  the  Lets  All  Wake 
Brickfaced  In  Lucan.  Lhirondella,  jaunty  Ihirondella!  With  tirra 
lirra  rondinelles,  atantivy  we  go ! 
Attention!  Stand  at!!  Ease!!! 

We  are  now  diffusing  among  our  lovers  of  this  sequence  (to 
you!  to  you!)  the  dewfolded  song  of  the  naughtingels  (Alys! 
Alysaloe!)  from  their  sheltered  positions,  in  rosescenery  hay- 
dyng,  on  the  heather  side  of  waldalure.  Mount  Saint  John's, 
Jinnyland,  whither  our  allies  winged  by  duskfoil  from  Moore- 
parque,  swift  sanctuary  seeking,  after  Sunsink  gang  (Oiboe! 

359 


Hitherzither!  Almost  dotty!  I  must  dash!)  to  pour  their  peace  in 
partial  (floflo  floreflorence),  sweetishsad  lightandgayle,  twittwin 
twosingwoolow.  Let  everie  sound  of  a  pitch  keep  still  in  reson- 
ance, jemcrow,  jackdaw,  prime  and  secund  with  their  terce  that 
whoe  betwides  them,  now  full  theorbe,  now  dulcifair,  and  when 
we  press  of  pedal  (sof!)  pick  out  and  vowelise  your  name. 
A  mum.  You  pere  Golazy,  you  mere  Bare  and  you  Bill  Heeny,  and 
you  Smirky  Dainty  and,  more  beethoken,  you  wheckfoolthe- 
nairyans  with  all  your  badchthumpered  peanas!  We  are  gluck- 
glucky  in  our  being  so  far  fortunate  that,  bark  and  bay  duol  with 
Man  Goodfox  inchimings  having  ceased  to  the  moment,  so  allow 
the  clinkars  of  our  nocturnefield,  night's  sweetmoztheart,  their 
Carmen  Sylvae,  my  quest,  my  queen.  Lou  must  wail  to  cool  me 
airly!  Coil  me  curly,  warbler  dear!  May  song  it  flourish  (in  the 
underwood),  in  chorush,  long  make  it  flourish  (in  the  Nut,  in  the 
Nutsky)  till  thorush !  Secret  Hookup. 

—  Roguenaar  Loudbrags,  that  soddy  old  samph!  How  high 
is  vuile,  var.'* 

To  which  yes  he  did,  capt,  that  was  the  answer. 

—  And  his  shartshort  trooping  its  colours !  We  knows  his 
ventruquulence. 

Which  that  that  rang  ripprippripplying. 

— Bulbul,  bulbulone !  I  will  shally.  Thou  shalt  willy .  You  wouldnt 
should  as  youd  remesmer.  I  hypnot.  'Tis  golden  sickle's  hour. 
Holy  moon  priestess,  we'd  love  our  grappes  of  mistellose!  Moths 
the  matter?  Pschtt!  Tabarins  comes.  To  fell  our  fairest.  O  gui,  O 
gui !  Salam,  salms,  salaum !  Carolus !  O  indeed  and  we  ware !  And 
hoody  crow  was  ere.  I  soared  from  the  peach  and  MissmoUy 
showed  her  pear  too,  onto  three  and  away.  Whet  the  bee  as  to 
deflowret  greendy  grassies  yellowhorse.  Kematitis,  cele  our  er- 
dours!  Did  you  aye,  did  you  eye,  did  you  everysee  suchaway, 
suchawhy,  eeriewhigg  airywhugger.'^  Even  to  the  extremity  of 
the  world?  Dingoldell!  The  enormanous  his,  our  littlest  little! 
Wee  wee,  that  long  alancey  one!  Let  sit  on  this  anthill  for  our 
frilldress  talk  after  this  day  of  making  blidie  inveiled  tlie  heart 
before  our  groatsupper  serves  to  us  Panchomaster  and  let  har- 

360 


leqwind  play  peeptomine  up  all  our  colombinations !  Wins 
won  is  nought,  twigs  too  is  nil,  tricks  trees  makes  nix,  fairs  fears 
stoops  at  nothing.  And  till  Arthur  comes  againus  and  sen  pea- 
trick's  he's  reformed  we'll  pose  him  together  a  piece,  a  pace. 
Shares  in  guineases!  There's  lovely  the  sight!  Surey  me,  man 
weepful!  Big  Seat,  you  did  hear?  And  teach  him  twisters  in 
tongue  irish.  Pat  lad  may  goh  too.  Quicken,  aspen;  ash  and  yew; 
willow,  broom  with  oak  for  you.  And  move  your  tellabout.  Not 
nice  is  that,  limpet  lady!  Spose  we  try  it  promissly.  Love  all. 
Naytellmeknot  tennis !  Taunt  me  treattening !  But  do  now  say  to 
Mr  Eustache!  Ingean  mingen  has  to  hear.  Whose  joint  is  out  of 
jealousy  now.'*  Why,  heavilybody's  evillyboldy's.  Hopping  Gra- 
cius,  onthy  ovful !  O  belessk  mie,  what  a  nerve !  How  a  mans  in 
his  armor  we  nurses  know.  Wingwong  welly,  pitty  pretty  Nelly ! 
Some  Poddy  pitted  in,  will  anny  petty  pullet  out?  Call  Kitty 
Kelly!  Kissykitty  Killykelly!  What  a  nossowl  buzzard!  But  what 
a  neats  ung  gels ! 

Here  all  the  leaves  alift  aloft,  full  o'liefing,  fell  alaughing  over 
Ombrellone  and  his  parasollieras  with  their  black  thronguards 
from  the  County  Shillelagh.  Ignorant  invincibles,  innocents  im- 
mutant!  Onzel  grootvatter  Lodewijk  is  onangonamed  before  the 
bridge  of  primerose  and  his  twy  Isas  Boldmans  is  met  the  bluey- 
bells  near  Dandeliond.  We  think  its  a  gorsedd  shame,  these  go- 
doms.  A  lark  of  limonladies!  A  lurk  of  orangetawneymen !  You're 
backleg  wounted,  budkley  mister,  bester  of  the  boyne ! 

And  they  leaved  the  most  leavely  of  leaftimes  and  the  most 
folliagenous  till  there  came  the  marrer  of  mirth  and  the  jangthe- 
rapper  of  all  jocolarinas  and  they  were  as  were  they  never  ere. 
Yet  had  they  laughtered,  one  on  other,  undo  the  end  and  enjoyed 
their  laughings  merry  was  the  times  when  so  grant  it  High  Hila- 
rion  us  may  too ! 

Cease,  prayce,  storywalkering  around  with  gestare  romano- 
verum  he  swinking  about  is  they  think  and  plan  unrawil 
what. 

Back  to  Droughty!  The  water  of  the  face  has  flowed. 
The  all  of  them,  the  sowriegueuxers,  blottyeyed  boys,  in  that 

361 


pig's  village  smoke,  a  sixdigitarian  legion  on  druid  circle,  the 
Clandibblon  clam  cartel,  then  pulled  out  and  came  off  and  rally 
agreed  them,  roasted  malts  with  toasted  hurleys,  in  condomnation 
of  his  totomptation  and  for  the  duration  till  his  repepulation, 
upon  old  nollcromforemost  ironsides,  as  camnabel  chieftain,  since, 
as  Sammon  trowed  to  explain  to  summon,  seeing  that,  as  he  had 
contracted  out  of  islands  empire,  he  might  as  coolly  have  rolled 
to  school  call,  tarponturboy,  a  grampurpoise,  the  manyfathom 
brinegrogm  with  the  fortyinch  bride,  out  of  the  cuptin  klanclord 
kettle  auction  like  the  soldr  of  a  britsh  he  was  bound  to  be  and 
become  till  the  sea  got  him  whilask,  from  maker  to  misses  and 
what  he  gave  was  as  a  pattern,  he,  that  hun  of  a  horde,  is  a  finn 
as  she,  his  tent  wife,  is  a  lap,  at  home  on  a  steed,  abroad  by  the 
fire  (to  say  nothing  of  him  having  done  whatyouknow  howyou- 
saw  whenyouheard  whereyouwot,  the  kenspeckled  souckar, 
generose  as  cocke,  greediguss  with  garzelle,  uprighter  of  age  and 
most  umbrasive  of  yews  all,  under  heaviest  corpsus  exemption) 
and  whoasever  spit  her  in  howsoever's  fondling  saving  her 
keepers  that  mould  the  bould  she  sould  to  hould  the  wine  that 
wakes  the  barley,  the  peg  in  his  pantry  to  hold  the  heavyache  off 
his  heart.  The  droll  delight  of  deemsterhood,  a  win  from  the 
wood  to  bond.  Like  the  bright  lamps,  Thamamahalla,  yearin  out 
yearin.  Auspicably  suspectable  but  in  expectancy  of  respectable- 
ness.  From  dirty  flock  bedding,  drip  dropping  through  the  ceil- 
ing, with  two  sisters  of  charities  on  the  front  steps  and  three  eva- 
cuan  cleansers  at  the  back  gaze,  single  box  and  pair  of  chairs 
(suspectable),  occasionally  and  alternatively  used  by  husband 
when  having  writing  to  do  in  connection  with  equitable  druids 
and  friendly  or  other  societies  through  periods  of  dire  want  with 
comparative  plenty  (thunderburst,  ravishment,  dissolution  and 
providentiality)  to  a  sofa  allbeit  of  hoarsehaar  with  Amodicum 
cloth,  hired  payono,  still  playing  off,  used  by  the  youngsters  for 
czurnying  out  oldstrums,  three  bedrooms  upastairs,  of  which 
one  with  fireplace  (aspectable),  with  greenliouse  in  prospect  (par- 
ticularly perspectable). 

And  you,  when  you  kept  at  Dulby,  were  you  always  (for  that 

362 


time  only)  what  we  knew  how  when  we  (from  that  point  solely) 

were  you  know  where?  There  you  are!  And  why?  Why,  hitch  a 

cock  eye,  he  was  snapped  on  the  sly  upsadaisying  coras  pearls 

out  of  the  pie  when  all  the  perts  in  princer  street  set  up  their 

tinker's  humn,  (the  rann,  the  rann,  that  keen  of  old  bards),  with 

them  newnesboys  pearcin  screaming  off  their  armsworths.  The 

boss  made  dovesandraves  out  of  his  bucknesst  while  herself  i^^^TiXifyrclu^ 

wears  the  bowler's  hat  in  her  bath.  Deductive  Almayne  Rogers  ^ ,  f 

disguides  his  voice,  shetters  behind  hoax  chestnote  from  exexive. 

Heat  wives  rasing.  They  jest  keeps  rosing.  He  jumps  leaps  rizing. 

Howlong! 

You  known  that  tom?  I  certainly  know.  Is  their  bann  boths- 
tiesed?  Saddenly  now.  Has  they  bane  reneemed?  Soothinly  low. 
Does  they  ought  to  buy  the  papelboy  when  he  footles  up  their 
suit?  He's  their  mark  to  foil  the  flouter  and  they  certainty 
owe. 

He  sprit  in  his  phiz  (baccon!).  He  salt  to  their  bis  (pudden!). 
He  toockled  her  palam  (so  calam  is  solom!).  And  he  suked  their 
friends'  leave  (bonn/ck  lass,  fair  weal !) 

—  Guilty  but  fellows  culpows !  It  was  felt  by  me  sindeade,  that 
submerged  doughdoughty  doubleface  told  waterside  labourers.  | 
But  since  we  for  athome's  health  have  chanced  all  that,  the  wild  /fl^^^ 
whips,  the  wind  ships,  the  wonderlost  for  world  hips,  unto  their 
foursquare  trust  prayed  in  aid  its  plumptylump  piteousness 
which,  when  it  turtled  around  seeking  a  thud  of  surf,  spake  to 
approach  from  inherdoff  trisspass  through  minxmingled  hair. 
Though  I  may  have  hawked  it,  said,  and  selled  my  how  hot  peas  l^^^^-^^-^ 
after  theactrisscalls  from  my  imprecurious  position  and  though   '  l^-^"^ 
achance  I  could  have  emptied  a  pan  of  backslop  down  drain  b}^ 
whiles  of  dodging  a  rere  from  the  middenprivet  appurtenant 
thereof,  salving  the  presents  of  the  board  of  wumps  and  pumps, 
I  am  ever  incalpable,  where  release  of  prisonals  properly  is  con- 
cerned, of  unlifting  upfallen  girls  wherein  dangered  from  them 
in  thereopen  out  of  unadulteratous  bowery,  with  those  hintering 
influences  from  an  angelsexonism.  It  was  merely  my  barely  till 
their  oh  offs.  Missaunderstaid.  Meggy  Guggy's  giggag.  The 

363 


code's  proof!  The  rebald  danger  with  they  who  would  bare  white- 
ness against  me  I  dismissem  from  the  mind  of  good.  He  can  tell 
such  as  story  to  the  Twelfth  Maligns  that  my  first  was  a  nurss- 
maid  and  her  fellower's  a  willbe  perambulatrix.  There  are  twingty 
to  twangty  too  thews  and  leathermail  coatschemes  penparing  to 
hostpost  for  it  valinnteerily  with  my  valued  fofavour  to  the  post 
puzzles  deparkment  with  larch  parchels'  of  presents  for  future 
branch  offercings.  The  green  approve  the  raid!  Shaum  Baum's 
bode  he  is  amustering  in  the  groves  while  his  shool  comes  merg- 
ing along!  Want  I  put  myself  in  their  kirtlies  I  were  ayearn  to 
leap  with  them  and  show  me  too  bisextine.  Dear  and  lest  I  for- 
get mergers  and  bow  to  you  low,  marchers!  Attemption!  What 
a  mazing  month  of  budsome  misses  they  are  making,  so  wingty- 
wish  to  flit  beflore  their  kin !  Attonsure !  Ears  to  hears !  The  skall 
of  a  gall  (for  every  dime  he  yawpens  that  momouth  you  could 
park  your  ford  in  it)  who  has  papertreated  him  into  captivities 
with  his  inside  man  by  a  hocksheat  of  starvision  for  an  avrageto- 
peace  of  parchment,  cooking  up  his  lenses  to  be  my  apoclogypst, 
