gttrdmmrng.  HUs  vlls.  The  timid  hearts  of  words  all  exeomno- 
sunt.  Mannagad,  lammalelouh,  how  do  that  come?  By  Dad,  youd 
not  heed  that  fert?  Fulgitudes  ejist  rowdownan  tonuout.  Quoq! 
And  buncskleydoodle !  Kidoosh!  Of  their  fear  they  broke,  they 
ate  wind,  they  fled;  where  they  ate  there  they  fled;  of  their  fear 
they  fled,  they  broke  away.  Go  to,  let  us  extol  Azrael  with  our 
harks,  by  our  brews,  on  our  jambses,  in  his  gaits.  To  Mezou- 
zalem  with  the  Dephilim,  didits  dinkun's  dud.'^  Yip!  Yup!  Yar- 
rah!  And  let  Nek  Nekulon  extol  Mak  Makal  and  let  him  say 
unto  him:  Immi  ammi  Semmi.  And  shall  not  Babel  be  with 
Lebab.'^  And  he  war.  And  he  shall  open  his  mouth  and  answer: 
I  hear,  O  Ismael,  how  they  laud  is  only  as  my  loud  is  one.  If 
Nekulon  shall  be  havonfalled  surely  Makal  haven  hevens.  Go  to, 
let  us  extell  Makal,  yea,  let  us  exceedingly  extell.  Though  you 
have  lien  amung  your  posspots  my  excellency  is  over  Ismael. 
Great  is  him  whom  is  over  Ismael  and  he  shall  mekanek  of  Mak 
Nakulon.  And  he  deed. 
Uplouderamainagain ! 

For  the  Clearer  of  the  Air  from  on  high  has  spoken  in  tumbul- 
dum  tambaldam  to  his  tembledim  tombaldoom  worrild  and,  mogu- 
phonoised  by  that  phonemanon,  the  unhappitents  of  the  earth 
have  terrerumbled  from  fimament  unto  fundament  and  from 
tweedledeedumms  down  to  twiddledeedees. 

Loud,  hear  us! 

Loud,  graciously  hear  us ! 

Now  have  thy  children  entered  into  their  habitations.  And 
nationglad,  camp  meeting  over,  to  shin  it,  Gov  be  thanked !  Thou 
hast  closed  the  portals  of  the  habitations  of  thy  children  and  thou 
hast  set  thy  guards  thereby,  even  Garda  Didymus  and  Garda 
^  Domas,  that  thy  children  may  read  in  the  book  of  the  opening  of 
the  mind  to  light  and  err  not  in  the  darkness  which  is  the  after- 
thought of  thy  nomatter  by  the  guardiance  of  those  guards  which 
are  thy  bodemen,  the  cheeryboyum  chirryboth  with  the  kerry- 
bommers  in  their  krubeems,  Pray-your-Prayers  Timothy  and 
Back-to-Bunk  Tom. 

258 


\ 

Till  tree  from  tree,  tree  among  trees,  tree  over  tree  become 
stone  to  stone,  stone  between  stones,  stone  under  stone  for  ever. 

O  Loud,  hear  the  wee  beseech  of  thees  of  each  of  these  thy  un- 
litten  ones!  Grant  sleep  in  hour's  time,  O  Loud! 

That  they  take  no  chill.  That  they  do  ming  no  merder.  That 
they  shall  not  gomeet  madhowiatrees.  ,  \/  c^^-^ 

Loud,  heap  miseries  upon  us  yet  entwine  our  arts  with  laugh- 
ters low! 

Ha  he  hi  ho  hu. 

Mummum. 


259 


With  his  broad 
and  hairy  face ^ 
to  Ireland  a 
disgrace, 

Menly  about 
peebles. 

Dont  retch  meat 
fat  salt  lard 
sinks  down  {and 
out). 


As  we  there  are  where  are  we  are  we  there 
from  tomtittot  to  teetootomtotalitarian.  Tea 
tea  too  oo. 

Whom  will  comes  over.  Who  to  caps  ever. 
And  howelse  do  we  hook  our  hike  to  find  that 
pint  of  porter  place?  Am  shot,  says  the  big- 
guard.^ 

Whence.  Quick  lunch  by  our  left,  wheel, 
to  where.  Long  Livius  Lane,  mid  Mezzofanti 
Mall,  diagonising  Lavatery  Square,  up  Tycho 
Brache  Crescent,^  shouldering  Berkeley  Alley, 
querfixing  Gainsborough  Carfax,  under  Guido 
d'Arezzo's  Gadeway,  by  New  Livius  Lane  till 
where  we  whiled  while  we  whithered.  Old 
Vico  Roundpoint.  But  fahr,  be  fear!  And 
natural,  simple,  slavish,  filial.  The  marriage  of 
Montan  wetting  his  moll  we  know,  like  any 
enthewsyass  cuckling  a  hoyden^  in  her  rougey 


UNDE  ETUBI, 


SIC. 


IMAGINABLE 
ITINERARY 
THROUGH 
THE 

PARTICULAR 
UNIVERSAL. 


^  Rawmeash,  quoshe  with  her  girlie  teangue.  If  old  Herod  with  the  Corm- 
well's  eczema  was  to  go  for  me  like  he  does  Snuffler  whatever  about  his  blue 
canaries  I'd  do  nine  months  for  his  beaver  beard. 

^  Mater  Mary  Mercerycordial  of  the  Dripping  Nipples,  milk's  a  queer 
arrangement. 

'  Real  life  behind  the  floodlights  as  shown  by  the  best  exponents  of  a  royal 
divorce. 

260 


iwiney  Tod,  ye 
Daimon  Barhar! 


Dig  him  in  the 
iibsh! 

Jngodly  old  Ard- 
ipy,  Cronwall 
ieeswaxing  the 
bnvulsion  box. 


gipsylike  chinkaminx  pulshandjupeyjade  and 
her  petsybluse  indecked  o'  voylets.^  When 
who  was  wist  was  ware.  En  elv,  et  f  jaell.  And 
the  whirr  of  the  whins  humming  us  howe. 
His  hume.  Hencetaking  tides  we  haply  return, 
trumpeted  by  prawns  and  ensigned  with  sea- 
kale,  to  befinding  ourself  when  old  is  said  in 
one  and  maker  mates  with  made  (O  my!), 
having  conned  the  cones  and  meditated  the 
mured  and  pondered  the  pensils  and  ogled  the 
olymp  and  delighted  in  her  dianaphous  and 
cacchinated  behind  his  culosses,  before  a 
mosoleum.  Length  Withought  Breath,  of  him, 
a  chump  of  the  evums,  upshoot  of  picnic  or 
stupor  out  of  sopor.  Cave  of  Kids  or  Hyma- 
nian  Glattstoneburg,  denary,  danery,  donnery, 
domm,  who,  entiringly  as  he  continues  highly- 
fictional,  tumulous  under  his  chthonic  exterior 
but  plain  Mr  Tumulty  in  muftilife,^  in  his  an- 
tisipiences  as  in  his  recognisances,  is,  (Dominic 
Directus)  a  manyfeast  munificent  more  mob 
than  man. 

Ainsoph,^  this  upright  one,  with  that 
noughty  besighed  him  zeroine.  To  see  in  his 
horrorscup  he  is  mehrkurios  than  saltz  of 
sulphur.  Terror  of  the  noonstruck  by  day, 
cryptogam  of  each  nightly  bridable.  But,  to 
speak  broken  heaventalk,  is  he?  Who  is  he? 
Whose  is  he?  Why  is  he?  Howmuch  is  he? 
Which  is  he?  When  is  he?  Where  is  he?^  How 
is  he?  And  what  the  decans  is  there  about  him 


CONSTITU- 
TION OF  THE 
CONSTITU- 
TIONABLE AS 
CONSTITU- 
TIONAL. 


^  When  we  play  dress  grownup  at  alia  ludo  poker  you'll  be  happnessised 
to  feel  how  fetching  I  can  look  in  clingarounds. 

^  Kellywick,  Longfellow's  Lodgings,  House  of  Comments  III,  Cake  "Walk, 
Amusing  Avenue,  Salt  Hill,  Co.  Mahogany,  Izalond,  Terra  Firma. 

^  Groupname  for  grape  juice. 

*  Bhing,  said  her  burglar's  head,  soto  poce. 

261 


Swing  the  hanjo^ 
bantams^  hounce- 
the-hallers 
blown  to  fook, 

Thsight  near 
left  me  eyes  when 
I  seen  her  put 
thounce  otay 
ithpot. 


Quartandwds. 


anyway,  the  decemt  man?  Easy,  calm  your 
haste!  Approach  to  lead  our  passage! 
This  bridge  is  upper. 
Cross. 

Thus  come  to  castle. 
Knock.i 

A  password,  thanks. 
Yes,  pearse. 
Well,  all  be  dumbed! 
O  really.^2 

Hoo  cavedin  earthwight 

At  furscht  kracht  of  thunder.^ 

When  shoo,  his  flutterby. 

Was  netted  and  named.^ 

Erdnacrusha,  requiestress,  wake  em! 

And    let    luck's    puresplutterall    lucy  at 

ease!^ 

To  house  as  wise  fool  ages  builded. 
Sow  byg  eat.^ 

Staplering  to  tether  to,  steppingstone  to 
mount  by,  as  the  Boote's  at  Pickardstown. 
And  that  skimmelk  steed  still  in  the  ground- 
loftfan.  As  over  all.  Or  be  these  wingsets  leaned 
to  the  outwalls,  beastskin  trophies  of  booth 
of  Baws  the  balsamboards.'^^  Burials  be  bally- 
houraised!  So  let  Bacchus  e'en  call!  Inn  inn! 
Inn  inn!  Where.  The  babbers  ply  the  pen. 
The  bibbers  drang  the  den.  The  papplicom, 
the  pubblicam  he's  turning  tin  for  ten.  From 


PROBA- 
POSSIBLE 
PROLEGO- 
MENA TO 
IDEAREAL 
HISTORY. 


GNOSIS  OF 
PRECREATE 
DETERMINA- 
TION. 

AGNOSIS  OF 
POSTCREATE 
DETER- 
MINISM. 


Tickets  for  the 
Tailwaggers 
Terrierpuppy 
Raffle, 

*  Yussive  smirte  and  ye  mermon  answerth  from  his  beelyingplace  below 
the  tightmark,  Gotahelv ! 

2  O  Evol,  kool  in  the  salg  and  ees  how  Dozi  pits  what  a  drows  er. 
^  A  goodrid  croven  in  a  tynwalled  tub. 

*  Apis  amat  aram.  Luna  legit  librum.  Pulla  petit  pascua. 
^  And  after  dinn  to  shoot  the  shades. 

^  Says  blistered  Mary  Achinhead  to  beautifed  Tummy  Tullbutt. 
Begge.  To  go  to  Begge.  To  go  to  Begge  and  to  be  sure  to  reminder 
Begge.  Goodbeg,  buggey  Begge. 

262 


\ 


seldomers  that  most  frequent  him.  That  same 
erst  crafty  hakemouth  which  under  the  assumed 
name  of  Ignotus  Loquor,  of  foggy  old, 
harangued  bellyhooting  fishdrunks  on  their 
favorite  stamping  ground,  from  a  father  theo- 
balder  brake.  ^  And  Egyptus,  the  incenstrobed. 
Mars  speaking.  as  Cyrus  heard  of  him.^  And  Major  A.  Shaw 
after  he  got  the  miner  smellpex.'^  And  old 
Whiteman  self,  the  blighty  blotchy,  beyond 
the  bays,  hope  of  ostrogothic  and  ottomanic 
faith  converters,  despair  of  Pandemia's  post- 
war tem  plastic  surgeons.^  But  is  was  all  so 
long  ago.  Hispano-Cathayan-Euxine,  Castil- 
lian  -  Emeratic  -  Hebridian,  Espanol  -  Cymric- 
Smithy  no  home,  Helleniky.^  Rolf  the  Ganger,  Rough  the  Gang- 
ster, not  a  feature  alike  and  the  face  the  same.^ 
Pastimes  are  past  times.  Now  let  bygones 
be  bei  Gunne's.  Saaleddies  er  it  in  this  warken 
werden,  mine  boerne,  and  it  vild  need  older- 
wise^  since  primal  made  alter  in  garden  of 
Idem.  The  tasks  above  are  as  the  flasks  below, 
saith  the  emerald  canticle  of  Hermes  and  all's 
Nan  quod  sed  loth  and  pleasestir,  are  we  told,  on  excellent 
^^J-<^t.  inkbottle  authority,  solarsystemised,  seriol- 

cosmically,  in  a  more  and  more  almightily 
expanding  universe  under  one,  there  is  rhyme- 
less  reason  to  believe,  original  sun.  Securely 
judges  orb  terrestrial.*  Hand  certo  ergo.  But 
Hearasay  in  O  felicitous  culpability,  sweet  bad  cess  to  you 

aradox  lust,         for  an  archetypt ! 

^  Huntler  and  Pumar's  animal  alphabites,  the  first  in  the  world  from 
aab  to  zoo. 

2  We  dont  hear  the  booming  cursowarries,  we  wont  fear  the  fletches  of 
fightning,  we  float  the  meditarenias  and  come  bask  to  the 'isle  we  love  in 
spice.  Punt. 

^  And  tliis  once  golden  bee  a  cimadoro. 

*  And  he  was  a  gay  Lutharius  anyway,  Sinobiled.  You  can  tell  by  their 
extraordinary  clothes. 

263 


Bags. 
Balls. 


Move  up, 
Mackinerny! 
Make  room  for 
Muckinurney! 


Honour  commercio's  energy  yet  aid  the 
linkless  proud,  the  plurable  with  everybody 
and  ech  with  pal,  this  ernst  of  Allsap*s  ale 
halliday  of  roaring  month  with  its  two  lunar 
eclipses  and  its  three  saturnine  settings!  Horn 
of  Heatthen,  highbrowed!  Brook  of  Life,  back- 
frish!  Amnios  amniurn,  fluminiculum  flami- 
nulinorum!  We  seek  the  Blessed  One,  the 
Harbourer-cum-Enheritance.  Even  Canaan 
the  Hateful.  Ever  a-going,  ever  a-coming. 
Between  a  stare  and  a  sough.  Fossilisation,  all 
branches.^  Wherefore  Petra  sware  unto  Ulma: 
By  the  mortals'  frost!  And  Ulma  sware  unto 
Petra:  On  my  veiny  life! 

In  these  places  sojournemus,  where  Eblinn 
water,  leased  of  carr  and  fen,  leaving  amont  her 
shoals  and  salmen  browses,  whom  inshore 
breezes  woo  with  freshets,  windeth  to  her 
broads.  A  phantom  city,  phaked  of  philim 
pholk,  bowed  and  sould  for  a  four  of  hundreds 
of  manhood  in  their  three  and  threescore 
fylkers  for  a  price  partitional  of  twenty  six  and 
six.  By  this  riverside,  on  our  sunnybank,^  how 
buona  the  vista,  by  Santa  Rosa!  A  field  of  May, 
the  very  vale  of  Spring.  Orchards  here  are 
lodged;  sainted  lawrels  evremberried.  You 
have  a  hoig  view  ashwald,  a  glen  of  marrons 
and  of  thorns.  Gleannaulinn,  Ardeevin:  purty 
glint  of  plaising  height.  This  Norman  court  at 
boundary  of  the  ville,  yon  creepered  tower  of 
a  church  of  Ereland,  meet  for  true  saints  in 
worshipful  assemblage,^  with  our  king's  house 


ARCHAIC 
ZELOTYPIA 
AND  THE 
ODIUM  TEL- 
EOLOGICUM. 


THE  LOCALI- 
SATION OF 
LEGEND 
LEADING  TO 
THE  LEGALI- 
SATION OF 
LATIFUND- 
ISM. 


^  Startnaked  and  bonedstiff.  We  vivvy  soddy.  All  be  dood. 
2  When  you  dreamt  that  you'd  wealth  in  marble  arch  do  you  ever  think  of 
pool  beg  slowe. 

^  Porphyrious  Olbion,  redcoatliar,  we  were  always  wholly  rose  marines 
on  our  side  every  time. 

264 


1 


n  snowdrop, 
rou-de-dentelky 
lesh  and  helio- 
rope. 


eres  our  do^en 
usins  from  the 
irves  on  tripes. 


of  stone,  belgroved  of  mulbrey,  the  still  that 
was  mill  and  Kloster  that  was  Yeomansland, 
the  ghastcold  tombshape  of  the  quick  fore- 
gone on,  the  loftleaved  elm  Lefanunian  above- 
mansioned,  each,  every,  all  is  for  the  retro- 
spectioner.  Skole!  Agus  skole  igen!^  Sweet- 
some  auburn,  cometh  up  as  a  selfreizing  flower, 
that  fragolance  of  the  fraisey  beds:  the  phoenix, 
his  pyre,  is  still  flaming  away  with  trueprat- 
tight  spirit:  the  wren  his  nest  is  niedelig  as  the 
turrises  of  the  sabines  are  televisible.  Here  are 
the  cottage  and  the  bungalow  for  the  cobbeler 
and  the  brandnewburgher:^  but  Izolde,  her 
chaplet  gardens,  an  litlee  plads  af  liefest  pose, 
arride  the  winnerful  wonders  ofl",  the  winner- 
ful  wonnerful  wanders  ofl",^  with  hedges  of 
ivy  and  hollywood  and  bower  of  mistletoe, 
are,  tho  if  it  theem  tho  and  yeth  if  you 
pleathes,^  for  the  blithehaired  daughter  of 
Angoisse.  All  out  of  two  barreny  old  perishers, 
Tytonyhands  and  Vlossyhair,  a  kilolitre  in 
metromyriams.  Presepeprosapia,  the  parent 
bole.  Wone  tabard,  wine  tap  and  warm  tavern^ 
and,  by  ribbon  development,  from  contact 
bridge  to  lease  lapse,  only  two  millium  two 
humbered  and  eighty  thausig  nine  humbered 
and  sixty  radiolumin  lines  to  the  wustworts  of 
a  Finntown's  generous  poet's  office.  Distorted 
mirage,  aloofliest  of  the  plain,  wherein  the 


^  Now  a  muss  wash  the  little  face. 

2  A  viking  vernacular  expression  still  used  in  the  Summerhill  district  for  a 
jerryhatted  man  of  forty  who  puts  two  fingers  into  his  boiling  soupplate  and 
licks  them  in  turn  to  find  out  if  there  is  enough  mushroom  catsup  in  the 
mutton  broth. 

3  H'  dk'  fs'  h'p'y. 
^  Googlaa  pluplu. 

^Tomley.  The  grown  man.  A  butcher  szewched  him  the  bloughs  and 
braches.  I'm  chory  to  see  P.  Shuter. 

265 


Bet  you  fippence^ 

anythesious^ 
there  s  no  pug- 
gatoryy  are  yous 
same^ 


boxomeness  of  the  bedelias^  makes  hobby- 
hodge  happy  in  his  hole.^  The  store  and 
charter,  Treetown  Castle  under  Lynne.  Riva- 
pool?  Hod  a  brieck  on  it!  But  its  piers  eerie, 
its  span  spooky,  its  toll  but  a  till,  its  parapets 
all  peripateting.  D' Oblong's  by  his  by.  Which 
we  all  pass.  Tons.  In  our  snoo.  Znore.  While 
we  hickerwards  the  thicker.  Schein.  Schore. 
Which  assoars  us  from  the  murk  of  the  mythe- 
lated  in  the  barrabelowther,  bedevere  butlered 
table  round,  past  Momingtop's  necessity  and 
Harington's  invention,  to  the  clarience  of  the 
childlight  in  the  studiorium  upsturts.  Here 
we'll  dwell  on  homiest  powers,  love  at  the 
latch  with  novices  nig  and  nag.  The  chorus: 
the  principals.  For  the  rifocillation  of  their 
inclination  to  the  manifestation  of  irritation: 
doldorboys  and  doll.^  After  sound,  light  and 
heat,  memory,  will  and  understanding. 

Here  (the  memories  framed  from  walls  are 
minding)  till  wranglers  for  wringwrowdy 
wready  are,  F  (at  gaze,  respecting,  four- 
teenth baronet,  meet,  altrettanth  bancorot, 
chaff)  and  ere  commence  commencement  cata- 
launic  when  Aetius  check  chokewill  Attil's 
gambit,  (that  buxon  bruzeup,  give  it  a  burl!) 
lead  us  seek,  O  june  of  eves  the  jenniest, 
thou  who  fleeest  flicklesome  the  fond  fervid 
frondeur  to  thickly  thyself  attach  with  thine 
efteased  ensuer,"*  ondrawer  of  our  uncon- 
scionable,  flickerflapper    fore    our  unter- 


PREAUSTERIC 
MAN  AND  HIS 
PURSUIT  OF 
PAN- 
HYSTERIC 
WOMAN. 


^  I  believe  in  Dublin  and  the  Sultan  of  Turkey. 

2  I  have  heard  this  word  used  by  Martin  Halpin,  an  old  gardener  from  the 
Glens  of  Antrim  who  used  to  do  odd  jobs  for  my  godfather,  the  Rev.  B.  B. 
Brophy  of  Swords. 

^  Ravens  may  rive  so  can  dove  deelish. 

*  A  question  of  pull. 

266 


I 


ere  was  a 
hopeful 
ulled  Cis. 


\weet 


'.  he  Big  Bear 
L  the  Sailor  s 
hly.  Trouble^ 
mbky  trouble, 

Mrening  Unge 
IristlikeKvinne. 


drugged,^  lead  us  seek,  lote  us  see,  light  us  find, 
let  us  missnot  Maidadate,  Mimosa  Multimim- 
etica,  the  maymeaminning  of  maimoomeining ! 
Elpis,  thou  fountain  of  the  greeces,  all  shall  speer 
theeward,^  from  kongen  in  his  canteenhus  to 
knivers  hind  the  knolL  Ausonius  Audacior 
and  gael,  gillie,  gall.^  Singalingalying.  Storiella 
as  she  is  syung.  Whence  followeup  with  end- 
speaking  nots  for  yestures,  plutonically  pur- 
suant on  briefest  glimpse  from  gladrags,  pretty 
Proserpronette  whose  slit  satchel  spilleth  peas. 

Belisha  beacon,  beckon  bright!  Usherette, 
unmesh  us !  That  grene  ray  of  earong  it  waves 
us  to  yonder  as  the  red,  blue  and  yellow  flogs 
time  on  the  domisole,^  with  a  blewy  blow  and 
a  windigo.  Where  flash  becomes  word  and 
silents  self  loud.  To  brace  congeners,  trebly 
bounden  and  asservaged  twainly.  Adamman,^ 
Emhe,  Issossianusheen  and  sometypes  Yggely 
ogs  Weib.  Uwayoei!^  So  mag  this  sybilette  be 
our  shibboleth  that  we  may  syllable  her  well ! 
Vetus  may  be  occluded  behind  the  mou  in 
Veto  but  Nova  will  be  nearing  as  their  radient 
among  the  Nereids.  A  one  of  charmers,  ay, 
Una  Unica,  charmers,  who,  under  the  branches 
of  the  elms,  in  shoes  as  yet  unshent  by  stoni- 
ness,  wend,  went,  will  wend  a  way  of  honey 
myrrh  and  rambler  roses  mistmusk  while  still 
the  maybe  mantles  the  meiblume  or  ever  her 


URGES  AND 
WIDERURGES 
IN  APRIMI- 
TIVE  SEPT. 


^  For  Rose  Point  see  Inishmacsaint. 
