
550 


li 

f 


I 


interloopings,  fell  clocksure  off  my  ballast:  in  our  windtor  palast 
it  vampared  for  elenders,  we  lubded  Sur  Gudd  for  the  sleep  and 
the  ghoasts:  she  chauffed  her  fuesies  at  my  Wigan's  jewels  while 
she  skalded  her  mermeries  on  my  Snorryson's  Sagos:  in  pay- 
cook's  thronsaale  she  domineered,  lecking  icies  off  the  dormer 
panes  all  admired  her  in  camises:  on  Rideau  Row  Duanna  dwells, 
you  merk  well  what  you  see:  let  wellth  were  I  our  pantocreator 
would  theirs  be  tights  for  the  gods:  in  littleritt  reddinghats  and 
cindery  yellows  and  tinsel  and  glitter  and  bibs  under  hoods:  I 
made  nusance  of  many  well  pressed  champdamors  and  peddled 
freely  in  the  scrub:  I  foredreamed  for  thee  and  more  than  full- 
maked:  I  prevened  for  thee  in  the  haunts  that  joybelled  frail  light- 
a-leaves  for  sturdy  traemen:  pelves  ad  homhres  sumus:  I  said  to 
the  shiftless  prostitute;  let  me  be  your  fodder;  and  to  rodies  and 
prater  brothers;  Chau,  Camerade!:  evangel  of  good  tidings,  om- 
nient  as  the  Healer's  word,  for  the  lost,  loathsome  and  whomso- 
ever will:  who,  in  regimentation  through  liberal  donation  in  co- 
ordination for  organisation  of  their  installation  and  augmenta- 
tion plus  some  annexation  and  amplification  without  precipita- 
tion towards  the  culmination  in  latification  of  what  was  formerly 
their  utter  privation,  competence,  cheerfulness,  usefulness  and 
the  meed,  shall,  in  their  second  adams,  all  be  made  alive:  my  tow 
tugs  steered  down  canal  grand,  my  lighters  lay  longside  on 
Regalia  Water.  And  I  built  in  Urhs  in  Rure^  for  minne  elskede, 
my  shiny  brows,  under  astrolobe  from  my  upservatory,  an  erd- 
closet  with  showne  ejector  wherewithin  to  be  squatquit  in  most 
covenience  from  her  sabbath  needs,  when  open  noise  should 
stilled  be:  did  not  I  festfix  with  mortarboard  my  unniversiries, 
wholly  rational  and  gottalike,  sophister  agen  sorefister,  life  sizars 
all?:  was  I  not  rosetted  on  two  Stellas  of  little  egypt?  had  not  I 
rockcut  readers,  hieros,  gregos  and  democriticos?:  triscastellated, 
bimedallised:  and  by  my  sevendialled  changing  charties  Hiberns- 
ka  Ulitzas  made  not  I  to  pass  through  twelve  Threadneedles  and 
Newgade  and  Vicus  Veneris  to  cooinsight?:  my  camels'  walk, 
kolossa  kolossa!  no  porte  sublimer  benared  my  ghates:  Oi  polled 
ye  many  but  my  fews  were  chousen  (Voter,  voter,  early  voter, 

551 


he  was  never  too  oft  for  old  Sarum):  terminals  four  my  staties 
were,  the  Geenar,  the  Greasouwea,  the  Debwickweck,  the  Mif- 
greawis.  And  I  sept  up  twinminsters,  the  pro  and  the  con,  mv 
stavekirks  wove  so  norcely  of  peeled  wands  and  attachatouchy 
floodmud,  now  all  loosebrick  and  stonefest,  freely  masoned, 
arked  for  covennanters  and  shinners'  rifuge:  descent  from  above 
on  us,  Hagiasofia  of  Astralia,  our  orisons  thy  nave  and  absedes, 
our  aeone  tone  aeones  thy  studvaast  vault;  Hams,  circuitise! 
Shemites,  retrace!:  horns,  hush!  no  barkeys!  hereround  is't 
holied!:  all  truanttrulls  made  I  comepull,  all  rubbeling  gnomes 
I  pushed,  gowgow:  Cassels,  Redmond,  Gandon,  Deane,  Shep- 
perd,  Smyth,  Neville,  Heaton,  Stoney,  Foley,  Farrell,  Vnost  with 
Thorneycroft  and  Hogan  too:  sprids  serve  me!  gobelins  guard!: 
tect  my  tileries  (O  tribes!  O  gentes!),  keep  my  keep,  the  peace 
of  my  four  great  ways:  oathiose  infernals  to  Booth  Salvation, 
arcane  celestials  to  Sweatenburgs  Welhell!  My  seven  wynds  I 
trailed  to  maze  her  and  ever  a  wynd  had  saving  closes  and  all  these 
closes  flagged  with  the  gust,  hoops  for  her,  hatsoff  for  him  and 
ruffles  through  Neeblow's  garding:  and  that  was  why  Blabus  was 
razing  his  wall  and  eltering  the  suzannes  of  his  nighboors:  and 
thirdly,  for  ewigs,  I  did  reform  and  restore  for  my  smuggy 
piggiesknees,  my  sweet  coolocked,  my  auburn  coyquailing  one, 
her  paddypalace  on  the  crossknoll  with  massgo  bell,  sixton 
clashcloshant,  duominous  and  muezzatinties  to  commind  the  fit- 
ful: doom  adimdim  adoom  adimadim:  and  the  oragel  of  the  lauds 
to  tellforth's  glory:  and  added  thereunto  a  shallow  laver  to  slub 
out  her  hellfire  and  posied  windows  for  her  oriel  house:  gospelly 
pewmillieu,  christous  pewmillieu:  zackbutts  babazounded,  ollguns 
tararulled:  and  she  sass  her  nach,  chillybombom  and  forty  bon- 
nets, upon  the  altarstane.  May  all  have  mossyhonours ! 

—  Hoke! 

—  Hoke! 

—  Hoke! 

—  Hoke! 

—  And  wholehail,snaefrell,dreardrizzle  or  sleetshowers  of  bless- 
ing, where  it  froze  in  chalix  eller  swum  in  the  vestry,  with  fairskin 


1 

i 


book  and  ruling  rod,  vein  of  my  vergin  page,  her  chastener  ever 
I  did  learn  my  little  ana  countrymouse  in  alphabeater  cameltem- 
per,  from  alderbirk  to  tannenyou,  with  myraw  rattan  atter  dun- 
drum;  ooah,  oyir,  oyir,  oyir:  and  I  did  spread  before  my  Livvy, 
where  Lord  street  lolls  and  ladies  linger  and  Cammomile  Pass 
cuts  Primrose  Rise  and  Coney  Bend  bounds  Mulbreys  Island  but 
never  a  blid  had  bledded  or  bludded  since  long  agore  when  the 
whole  blighty  acre  was  bladey  well  pessovered,  my  selvage  mats 
of  lecheworked  lawn,  my  carpet  gardens  of  Guerdon  City,  with 
chopes  pyramidous  and  mousselimes  and  beaconphires  and  colos- 
sets  and  pensilled  turisses  for  the  busspleaches  of  the  summira- 
mies  and  esplanadas  and  statuesques  and  templeogues,  the  Par- 
donell  of  Maynooth,  Fra  Teobaldo,  Nielsen,  rare  admirable,  Jean 
de  Porteleau,  Conall  Gretecloke,  Guglielmus  Caulis  and  the  eiligh 
ediculous  Passivucant  (glorietta's  inexcellsiored!):  for  irkdays 
and  for  folliedays  till  the  comple  anniums  of  calendarias,  gregoro- 
maios  and  gypsyjuliennes  as  such  are  pleased  of  theirs  to  walk: 
and  I  planted  for  my  own  hot  lisbing  lass  a  quickset  vineyard  and 
I  fenced  it  about  with  huge  Chesterfield  elms  and  Kentish  hops 
and  rigs  of  barlow  and  bowery  nooks  and  greenwished  villas 
and  pampos  animos  and  (N.I.)  necessitades  iglesias  and  pons  for 
aguaducks:  a  hawthorndene,  a  feyrieglenn,  the  hallaw  vail,  the 
dyrchace,  Finmark*s  Howe,  against  lickybudmonth  and  gleaner- 
month  with  a  magicscene  wall  (rimrim!  rimrim!)  for  a  Queen's 
garden  of  her  phoenix:  and  (hush!  hush!)  I  brewed  for  my  alpine 
plurabelle,  wigwarming  wench,  (speakeasy!)  my  granvilled  brand- 
old  Dublin  lindub,  the  free,  the  froh,  the  frothy  freshener,  puss, 
puss,  pussyfoot,  to  split  the  spleen  of  her  maw:  and  I  laid  down 
before  the  trotters  to  my  eblanite  my  stony  battered  waggon - 
ways,  my  nordsoud  circulums,  my  eastmoreland  and  westland- 
more,  running  boullowards  and  syddenly  parading,  (hearsemen, 
opslo!  nuptiallers,  get  storting!):  whereon,  in  mantram  of  true- 
men  like  yahoomen  (expect  till  dutc  cundoctor  summoneth  him 
all  fahrts  to  pay,  velkommen  all  hankinhunkn  in  this  vongn  of 
Hoseyeh!),  claudesdales  withe  arabinstreeds,  Roamer  Reich's 
rickyshaws  with  Hispain's  King's  trompateers,  madridden  mus- 

,  553 


tangs,  buckarestive  bronchos,  poster  shays  and  tumintaxis,  and 
tall  tall  tilburys  and  nod  nod  noddies,  others  gigging  gaily,  some 
sedated  in  sedans:  my  priccoping  gents,  aroger,  aroger,  my  dam- 
sells  softsidesaddled,  covertly,  coverdy,  and  Lawdy  Dawe  a  perch 
behind:  the  mule  and  the  hinny  and  the  jennet  and  the  mustard 
nag  and  piebald  shjelties  and  skewbald  awknees  steppit  lively 
(lift  ye  the  left  and  rink  ye  the  right!)  for  her  pleashadure:  and 
she  lalaughed  in  her  diddydid  domino  to  the  switcheries  of  the 
whip.  Down  with  them!  Kick!  Playup! 

Mattahah!  Marahah!  Luahah!  Joahanahanahana  1 


554 


What  was  thaas?  Fog  was  whaas?  Too  mult  sleepth.  Let 
sleepth. 

But  really  now  whenabouts?  Expatiate  then  how  much  times 
we  live  in.  Yes.'^ 

So,  nat  by  night  by  naught  by  naket,  in  those  good  old  lousy 
days  gone  by,  the  days,  shall  we  say?  of  Whom  shall  we  say? 
while  kinderwardens  minded  their  twinsbed,  therenow  they- 
stood,  the  sycomores,  all  four  of  them,  in  their  quartan  agues,  the 
majorchy,  the  minorchy,  the  everso  and  the  fermentarian  with 
their  ballyhooric  blowreaper,  titranicht  by  tetranoxst,  at  their 
pussycorners,  and  that  old  time  pallyollogass,  playing  copers  fear- 
some, with  Gus  Walker,  the  cuddy,  and  his  poor  old  dying 
boosy  cough,  esker,  newcsle,  saggard,  crumlin,  dell  me,  donk, 
the  way  to  wumblin.  Follow  me  beeline  and  you're  bumblin, 
esker,  newcsle,  saggard,  crumlin.  And  listening.  So  gladdied  up 
when  nicechild  Kevin  Mary  (who  was  going  to  be  comman- 
deering chief  of  the  choirboys'  brigade  the  moment  he  grew  up 
under  all  the  auspices)  irishsmiled  in  his  milky  way  of  cream 
dwibble  and  onage  tustard  and  dessed  tabbage,  frighted  out  when 
badbrat  Jerry  Godolphing  (who  was  hurrying  to  be  cardinal 
scullion  in  a  night  refuge  as  bald  as  he  was  cured  enough 
unerr  all  the  hospitals)  furrinfrowned  down  his  wrinkly  waste 
of  methylated  spirits,  ick,  and  lemoncholy  lees,  ick,  and  pulverised 
rhubarbarorum,  icky; 

555 


night  by  silentsailing  night  while  infantina  Isobel  (who  will  be 
blushing  all  day  to  be,  when  she  growed  up  one  Sunday, 
Saint  Holy  and  Saint  Ivory,  when  she  took  the  veil,  the 
beautiful  presentation  nun,  so  barely  twenty,  in  her  pure  coif, 
sister  Isobel,  and  next  Sunday,  Mistlemas,  when  she  looked 
a  peach,  the  beautiful  Samaritan,  still  as  beautiful  and  still 
in  her  teens,  nurse  Saintette  Isabelle,  with  stiffstarched  cuffs  but 
on  Holiday,  Christmas,  Easter  mornings  when  she  wore  a  wreath, 
the  wonderful  widow  of  eighteen  springs,  Madame  Isa  Veuve  La 
Belle,  so  sad  but  lucksome  in  her  boyblue's  long  black  with 
orange  blossoming  weeper's  veil)  for  she  was  the  only  girl  they 
loved,  as  she  is  the  queenly  pearl  you  prize,  because  of  the  way 
the  night  that  first  we  met  she  is  bound  to  be,  methinks,  and  not 
in  vain,  the  darling  of  my  heart,  sleeping  in  her  april  cot,  within 
her  singachamer,  with  her  greengageflavoured  candywhisde 
duetted  to  the  crazyquilt,  Isobel,  she  is  so  pretty,  truth  to  tell, 
wildwood's  eyes  and  primarose  hair,  quietly,  all  the  woods  so 
wild,  in  mauves  of  moss  and  daphnedews,  how  all  so  still  she  lay, 
neath  of  the  whitethorn,  child  of  tree,  like  some  losthappy  leaf, 
like  blowing  flower  stilled,  as  fain  would  she  anon,  for  soon  again 
'twill  be,  win  me,  woo  me,  wed  me,  ah  weary  me!  deeply,  now 
evencalm  lay  sleeping; 

nowth  upon  nacht,  while  in  his  tumbril  Wachtman  Havelook 
seequeerscenes,  from  yonsides  of  the  choppy,  punkt  by  his 
curserbog,  went  long  the  grassgross  bumpinstrass  that  benders 
the  pubbel  to  pass,  stowing  his  botde  in  a  hole  for  at  whet  his 
whuskle  to  stretch  ecrooksman,  sequestering  for  lovers'  lost  pro- 
pertied offices  the  leavethings  from  allpurgers'  night,  og  gneiss 
ogas  gnasty,  kikkers,  brillers,  knappers  and  bands,  handsboon 
and  strumpers,  sminkysticks  and  eddiketsflaskers; 

wan  fine  night  and  the  next  fine  night  and  last  find  night  while 
Kothereen  the  Slop  in  her  native's  chambercushy,  with  dreamings 
of  simmering  my  veal  astore,  was  basquing  to  her  pillasleep  how 
she  thawght  a  knogg  came  to  the  dowanstairs  dour  at  that  howr 
to  peirce  the  yare  and  dowandshe  went,  schritt  be  schratt,  to  see 
was  it  Schweeps's  mingerals  or  Shuhorn  the  posth  with  a  tilly- 

556 


i 


I 


I 


! 


I 


cramp  for  Hemself  and  Co,  Esquara,  or  them  four  hoarsemen  on 
their  apolkaloops,  Norreys,  Soothbys,  Yates  and  Welks,  and, 
galorybit  of  the  sanes  in  hevel,  there  was  a  crick  up  the  stirkiss 
and  when  she  ruz  the  cankle  to  see,  galohery,  downand  she  went 
on  her  knees  to  blessersef  that  were  knogging  together  like  milk- 
juggles  as  if  it  was  the  wrake  of  the  hapspurus  or  old  Kong 
Gander  O'Toole  of  the  Mountains  or  his  googoo  goosth  she 
seein,  sliving  off  over  the  sawdust  lobby  out  of  the  backroom,  wan 
ter,  that  was  everywans  in  turruns,  in  his  honeymoon  trim,  holding 
up  his  fingerhals,  with  the  clookey  in  his  fisstball,  tocher  of  davy's, 
tocher  of  ivileagh,  for  her  to  whisht,  you  sowbelly,  and  the 
whites  of  his  pious  eyebulbs  swering  her  to  silence  and  coort; 

each  and  every  juridical  sessions  night,  whenas  goodmen 
twelve  and  true  at  fox  and  geese  in  their  numbered  habitations 
tried  old  wireless  over  boord  in  their  juremembers,  whereas  by 
reverendum  they  found  him  guilty  of  their  and  those  imputations 
of  fornicolopulation  with  two  of  his  albowcrural  correlations  on 
whom  he  was  said  to  have  enjoyed  by  anticipation  when  school- 
ing them  in  amown,  mid  grass,  she  sat,  when  man  was,  amazingly 
frank,  for  their  first  conjugation  whose  colours  at  standing  up 
from  the  above  were  of  a  pretty  carnation  but,  if  really  'twere 
not  so,  of  some  deretane  denudation  with  intent  to  excitation, 
caused  by  his  retrogradation,  among  firearmed  forces  proper  to 
this  nation  but  apart  from  all  titillation  which,  he  said,  was  under 
heat  pressure  and  a  good  mitigation  without  which  in  any  case 
he  insists  upon  being  worthy  of  continued  alimentation  for  him 
having  displayed,  he  says,  such  grand  toleration,  reprobate  so 
noted  and  all,  as  he  was,  with  his  washleather  sweeds  and  his 
smokingstump,  for  denying  transubstantiation  nevertheless  in 
respect  of  his  highpowered  station,  whereof  more  especially  as 
probably  he  was  meantime  suffering  genteel  tortures  from  the 
best  medical  attestation,  as  he  oftentimes  did,  having  only 
strength  enough,  by  way  of  festination,  to  implore  (or  I  believe 
you  have  might  have  said  better)  to  complore,  with  complete 
obsecration,  on  everybody  connected  with  him  the  curse  of  co- 
agulation for,  he  tells  me  outside  Sammon's  in  King  Street,  after 

557 


two  or  three  hours  of  close  confabulation,  by  this  pewterpint  of 
Gilbey's  goatswhey  which  is  his  prime  consolation,  albeit  in- 
volving upon  the  same  no  uncertain  amount  of  esophagous  re- 
gurgitation, he  being  personally  unpreoccupied  to  the  extent  of 
a  flea's  gizzard  anent  eructation,  if  he  was  still  extremely  offen- 
sive to  a  score  and  four  nostrils'  dilatation,  still  he  was  likewise, 
on  the  other  side  of  him,  for  some  nepmen's  eyes  a  delectation,  as 
he  asserts  without  the  least  alienation,  so  prays  of  his  faullt  you 
would  make  obliteration  but  for  our  friend  behind  the  bars, 
though  like  Adam  Findlater,  a  man  of  estimation,  summing  him 
up  to  be  done,  be  what  will  of  excess  his  exaltation,  still  we  think 
with  Sully  there  can  be  no  right  extinuation  for  contravention 
of  common  and  statute  legislation  for  which  the  fit  remedy 
resides,  for  Mr  Sully,  in  corporal  amputation:  so  three  months  for 
Gubbs  Jeroboam,  the  frothwhiskered  pest  of  the  park,  as  per 
act  one,  section  two,  schedule  three,  clause  four  of  the  fifth  of 
King  Jark,  this  sentence  to  be  carried  out  tomorrowmorn  by 
Nolans  Volans  at  six  o'clock  shark,  and  may  the  yeastwind  and 
the  hoppinghail  malt  mercy  on  his  seven  honeymeads  and  his 
hurlyburlygrowth.  Amen,  says  the  Clarke; 

niece  by  nice  by  neat  by  natty,  whilst  amongst  revery's  happy 
gardens  nine  with  twenty  Leixlip  yearlings,  darters  all,  had  such  a 
ripping  time  with  gleeful  cries  of  what  is  nice  toppingshaun  made 
of  made  for  and  weeping  like  fun,  him  to  be  gone,  for  they  were 
never  happier,  huhu,  than  when  they  were  miserable,  haha; 

in  their  bed  of  trial,  on  the  bolster  of  hardship,  by  the  glimmer 
of  memory,  under  coverlets  of  cowardice,  Albatrus  Nyanzer  with 
Victa  Nyanza,  his  mace  of  might  mortified,  her  beautifell  hung 
up  on  a  nail,  he,  Mr  of  our  fathers,  she,  our  moddereen  ru  arue 
rue,  they,  ay,  by  the  hodypoker  and  blazier,  they  are,  as  sure  as 
dinny  drops  into  the  dyke  .  .  . 

A  cry  off. 

Where  are  we  at  all?  and  whenabouts  in  the  name  of  space? 
I  don't  understand.  I  fail  to  say.  I  dearsee  you  too. 
House  of  the  cederbalm  of  mead.  Garth  of  Fyon.  Scene  and 
property  plot.  Stagemanager's  prompt.  Interior  of  dwelling  on  out- 

558 


I 


I 

I 


skirts  of  city.  Groove  two.  Chamber  scene.  Boxed.  Ordinary  bed- 
room set.  Salmonpapered  walls.  Back,  empty  Irish  grate,  Adam's 
mantel,  with  wilting  elopement  fan,  soot  and  tinsel,  condemned. 
North,  wall  with  window  practicable.  Argentine  in  casement. 
Vamp.  Pelmit  above.  No  curtains.  Blind  drawn.  South,  party  wall. 
Bed  for  two  with  strawberry  bedspread,  wickerworker  clubsessel 
and  caneseated  millikinstool.  Bookshrine  without,  facetowel  upon. 
Chair  for  one.  Woman's  garments  on  chair.  Man's  trousers  with 
crossbelt  braces,  collar  on  bedknob.  Man's  corduroy  surcoat  with 
tabrets  and  taces,  seapan  nacre  buttons  on  nail.  Woman's  gown 
on  ditto.  Over  mantelpiece  picture  of  Michael,  lance,  slaying 
Satan,  dragon  with  smoke.  Small  table  near  bed,  front.  Bed  with 
bedding.  Spare.  Flagpatch  quilt.  Yverdown  design.  Limes. 
Lighted  lamp  without  globe,  scarf,  gazette,  tumbler,  quantity 
of  water,  julepot,  ticker,  side  props,  eventuals,  man's  gummy 
article,  pink. 

Act:  dumbshow.  i 
Closeup.  Leads.  ^ 
Man  with  nightcap,  in  bed,  fore.  Woman,  with  curlpins,  hind. 
Discovered.  Side  point  of  view.  First  position  of  harmony.  Say! 
Eh.^  Ha!  Check  action.  Matt.  Male  partly  masking  female.  Man 
looking  round,  beastly  expression,  fishy  eyes,  paralleliped 
homoplatts,  ghazometron  pondus,  exhibits  rage.  Business.  Ruddy 
blond,  Armenian  bole,  black  patch,  beer  wig,  gross  build, 
episcopalian,  any  age.  Woman,  sitting,  looks  at  ceiling,  haggish 
expression,  peaky  nose,  trekant  mouth,  fithery  wight,  exhibits 
fear.  Welshrabbit  teint,  Nubian  shine,  nasal  fossette,  turfy  tuft, 
undersized,  free  kirk,  no  age.  Closeup.  Play! 
Callboy.    Cry  off,  Tabler.  Her  move. 
Footage. 

By  the  sinewy  forequarters  of  the  mare  Pocahontas  and  by  the 
white  shoulders  of  Finnuala  you  should  have  seen  how  that 
smart  sallowlass  just  hopped  a  nanny's  gambit  out  of  bunk  like 
old  mother  Mesopotomac  and  in  eight  and  eight  sixtyfour  she 
was  off,  door,  knightlamp  with  her,  billy's  largelimbs  prodgering 

559 


after  to  queen's  lead.  Promiscuous  Omebound  to  Fiammelle  la 
Diva.  HufF!  His  move.  Blackout. 
Circus.  Corridor. 

Shifting  scene.  Wall  flats:  sink  and  fly.  Spotlight  working  wall 
cloths.  Spill  playing  rake  and  bridges.  Room  to  sink:  stairs  to 
sink  behind  room.  Two  pieces.  Haying  after  queue.  Replay. 

The  old  humburgh  looks  a  thing  incomplete  so.  It  is  so.  On  its 
dead.  But  it  will  pawn  up  a  fine  head  of  porter  when  it  is  finished. 
In  the  quicktime.  The  castle  arkwright  put  in  a  chequered  staircase 
certainly.  It  has  only  one  square  step,  to  be  steady,  yet  notwith- 
stumbling  are  they  stalemating  backgammoner  supstairs  by  skips 
and  trestles  tiltop  double  corner.  Whist  while  and  game. 

What  scenic  artist!  It  is  ideal  residence  for  realtar.  By  hims 
ingang  tilt  tinkt  a  tunning  bell  that  Limen  Mr,  that  Boggey 
Godde,  be  airwaked.  Lingling,  lingling.  Be  their  maggies  in  all. 
Chump,  do  your  ephort.  Shop!  Please  shop!  Shop  ado  please! 
O  ado  please  shop !  How  hominous  his  house,  haunt  it.'^  Yesses 
indead  it  be !  Nogen,  of  imperial  measure,  is  begraved  beneadher. 
Here  are  his  naggins  poured,  his  alladim  lamps.  Around  the 
bloombiered,  booty  with  the  bedst.  For  them  whom  he  have 
fordone  make  we  newly  thankful ! 

Tell  me  something.  The  Porters,  so  to  speak,  after  their 
shadowstealers  in  the  newsbaggers,  are  very  nice  people,  are  they 
not.^  Very,  all  fourlike  tellt.  And  on  this  wise,  Mr  Porter  (Bar- 
tholomew, heavy  man,  astern,  mackerel  shirt,  hayamatt  peruke) 
is  an  excellent  forefather  and  Mrs  Porter  (leading  lady,  a 
poopahead,  gafl'neysaffron  nightdress,  iszoppy  chepelure)  is  a 
most  kindhearted  messmother.  A  so  united  family  pateramater 
is  not  more  existing  on  papel  or  off  of  it.  As  keymaster  fits  the 
lock  it  weds  so  this  bally  builder  to  his  streamline  secret.  They 
care  for  nothing  except  everything  that  is  allporterous.  Porto 
da  Br  Olio!  Isn't  that  terribly  nice  of  diem.^  You  can  ken  that  they 
come  of  a  rarely  old  family  by  their  costumance  and  one  must 
togive  that  one  supped  of  it  in  all  tonearts  from  awe  to  zest.  I 
think  I  begin  to  divine  so  much.  Only  snakkest  me  truesome!  I 
stone  us  I'm  hable. 

560 


J 


To  reachy  a  skeer  do!  Still  hoyhra,  till  venstra!  Here  are  two 
rooms  on  the  upstairs,  at  forkflank  and  at  knifekanter.  Whom  in 
the  wood  are  they  for?  Why,  for  little  Porter  babes,  to  be  saved! 
The  coeds,  boytom  thwackers  and  timbuy  teaser.  Here  is  one- 
thing  you  owed  two  noe.  This  one  once  upon  awhile  was  the 
other  but  this  is  the  other  one  nighadays.  Ah  so?  The  Corsicos? 
They  are  numerable.  Guest  them.  Major  bed,  minor  bickhive. 
Halosobuth,  sov  us!  Who  sleeps  in  now  number  one,  for  ex- 
ample? A  pussy,  purr  esimple.  Cunina,  Statulina  and  Edulia, 
but  how  sweet  of  her!  Has  your  pussy  a  pessname?  Yes,  indeed, 
you  will  hear  it  passim  in  all  the  noveletta  and  she  is  named 
Buttercup.  Her  bare  name  will  tellt  it,  a  monitress.  How  very 
sweet  of  her  and  what  an  excessively  lovecharming  missyname 
to  forsake,  now  that  I  come  to  drink  of  it  filtred,  a  gracecup 
fulled  of  bitterness.  She  is  dadad's  lottiest  daughterpearl  and 
brooder's  cissiest  auntybride.  Her  shellback  thimblecasket  mirror 
only  can  show  her  dearest  friendeen.  To  speak  well  her  grace 
it  would  ask  of  Grecian  language,  of  her  goodness,  that  legend 
golden.  Biryina  Saindua!  Loreas  with  lillias  flocaflake  arrosas! 
Here's  newyearspray,  the  posquiflor,  a  windaborne  and  helio- 
trope; there  miriamsweet  and  amaranth  and  marygold  to  crown. 
Add  lightest  knot  unto  tiptition.  O  Charis!  O  Charissima! 
A  more  intriguant  bambolina  could  one  not  colour  up  out 
of  Boccuccia's  Enameron.  Would  one  but  to  do  apart  a  lilybit  her 
virginelles  and,  so,  to  breath,  so,  therebetween,  behold,  she  had 
instantt  with  her  handmade  as  to  graps  the  myth  inmid  the  air. 
Mother  of  moth !  I  will  to  show  herword  in  flesh.  Approach  not  for 
ghost  sake !  It  is  dormition !  She  may  think,  what  though  litde  doth 
she  realise,  as  morning  fresheth,  it  hath  happened  her,  you  know 
what,  as  they  too  what  two  dare  not  utter.  Silvoo  plush,  if  scolded 
she  draws  a  face.  Petticoat's  asleep  but  in  the  gentlenest  of  her 
thoughts  apoo  is  a  nursepin.  To  be  presented,  Babs  for  Bim- 
bushi?  Of  courts  and  with  enticers.  Up,  girls,  and  at  him!  Alone? 
Alone  what?  I  mean,  our  strifestirrer,  does  she  do  fleurty  winkies 
with  herself.  Pussy  is  never  alone,  as  records  her  chambrette,  for 
she  can  always  look  at  Biddies  and  talk  petnames  with  her  little 

561 


playfilly  when  she  is  sitting  downy  on  the  ploshmat.  O,  she 
talks,  does  she?  Marry,  how?  Rosepetalletted  sounds.  Ah  Biddies 
es  ma  plikplak.  Ah  plikplak  wed  ma  Biddies.  A  nice  jezebel  bary- 
tinette  she  will  gift  but  I  much  prefer  her  missnomer  in  maidenly 
golden  lasslike  gladsome  wenchful  flowery  girlish  beautycapes. 
So  do  I,  much.  Dulce  delicatissima!  Doth  Dolly  weeps  she  is 
bastings.  Will  Dally  bumpsetty  it  is  tubtime.  Allaliefest,  she  who 
pities  very  pebbles,  dare  we  not  wish  on  her  our  thrice  onsk? 
A  lovely  fear !  That  she  seventip  toe  her  chrysming,  that  she  spin 
blue  to  scarlad  till  her  templets  veil,  that  the  Mount  of  Whoam  it 
open  it  her  to  shelterer!  She  will  blow  ever  so  much  more  pro- 
misefuller,  blee  me,  than  all  the  other  common  marygales  that 
romp  round  brigidschool,  charming  Carry  Whambers  or  saucy 
Susy  Maucepan  of  Merry  Anna  Patchbox  or  silly  Polly  Flinders. 
Platsch!  A  plikaplak. 

And  since  we  are  talking  amnessly  of  brukasloop  crazedledaze, 
who  doez  in  sleeproom  number  twobis?  The  twobirds.  Holy 
policeman,  O,  I  see!  Of  what  age  are  your  birdies?  They  are  to 
come  of  twinning  age  so  soon  as  they  may  be  born  to  be  elder- 
ing  like  those  olders  while  they  are  living  under  chairs.  They  are 
and  they  seem  to  be  so  tightly  tattached  as  two  maggots  to  touch 
other,  I  think  I  notice,  do  I  not?  You  do.  Our  bright  bull  babe 
Frank  Kevin  is  on  heartsleeveside.  Do  not  you  waken  him!  Our 
farheard  bode.  He  is  happily  to  sleep,  limb  of  the  Lord,  with  his 
lifted  in  blessing,  his  buchel  losa,  like  the  blissed  angel  he  looks  so 
like  and  his  mou  is  semiope  as  though  he  were  blowdelling  on  a 
bugigle.  Whenever  I  see  those  smiles  in  eyes  'tis  Father  Quinn 
again.  Very  shortly  he  will  smell  sweetly  when  he  will  hear  a  weird 
to  wean.  By  gorgeous,  that  boy  will  blare  some  knight  when  he  will 
take  his  dane's  pledges  and  quit  our  ingletears,  spite  of  undesirable 
parents,  to  wend  him  to  Amorica  to  quest  a  cashy  job.  That  keen 
dean  with  his  veen  nonsolance!  O,  I  adore  the  profeen  music! 
DoUarmighty!  He  is  too  audorable  really,  eunique!  I  guess  to 
have  seen  somekid  like  him  in  the  story  book,  guess  I  met  some- 
where somelam  to  whom  he  will  be  becoming  liker.  But  hush! 
How  unpardonable  of  me!  I  beg  for  your  venials,  sincerely  I  do. 

562 


Hush!  The  other,  twined  on  codliverside,  has  been  crying  in 
his  sleep,  making  sharpshape  his  inscissors  on  some  first  choice 
sweeis  fished  out  of  the  muck.  A  stake  in  our  mead.  What  a 
teething  wretch!  How  his  book  of  craven  images!  Here  are  post- 
humious  tears  on  his  intimelle.  And  he  has  pipettishly  bespilled 
himself  from  his  foundingpen  as  illspent  from  inkinghorn.  He  is 
jem  job  joy  pip  poo  pat  (jot  um  for  a  sobrat!)  Jerry  Jehu.  You  will 
know  him  by  name  in  the  capers  but  you  cannot  see  whose  heel  he 
sheepfolds  in  his  wrought  hand  because  I  have  not  told  it  to  you. 
O,  foetal  sleep!  Ah,  fatal  slip!  the  one  loved,  the  other  left,  the 
bride  of  pride  leased  to  the  stranger  1  He  will  be  quite  within  the  pale 
when  with  lordbeeron  brow  he  vows  him  so  tosset  to  be  of  the  sir 
Blake  tribes  bleak  while  through  life's  unblest  he  rodes  backs  of 
bannars.  Are  you  not  somewhat  bulgar  with  your  bowels.^ 
Whatever  do  you  mean  with  bleak.'^  With  pale  blake  I  write  tint- 
ingface.  O,  you  do.'*  And  with  steel  white  and  blackmail  I  ha'scint 
for  my  sweet  an  anemone's  letter  with  a  gold  of  my  bridest  hair 
betied.  Donatus  his  mark,  address  as  follows.  So  you  did.'*  From 
the  Cat  and  Cage.  O,  I  see  and  see!  In  the  ink  of  his  sweat 
he  will  find  it  yet.  What  Gipsy  Devereux  vowed  to  Lylian  and 
why  the  elm  and  how  the  stone.  You  never  may  know  in  the 
preterite  all  perhaps  that  you  would  not  believe  that  you  ever 
even  saw  to  be  about  to.  Perhaps.  But  they  are  two  very  blizky 
little  portereens  after  their  bredscrums,  JerkofF  and  Eatsup,  as 
for  my  part  opinion  indeed.  They  would  be  born  so,  costarred, 
puck  and  prig,  the  maryboy  at  Donnybrook  Fair,  the  godolphing- 
lad  in  the  Hoy's  Court.  How  frilled  one  shall  be  as  at  taledold  of 
Formio  and  Cigalette!  What  folly  innocents!  Theirs  whet  pep  of 
puppyhood!  Both  barmhearts  shall  become  yeastcake  by  their 
brackfest.  I  will  to  leave  a  my  copperwise  blessing  between  the 
pair  of  them,  for  rosengorge,  for  greenafang.  Blech  and  tin  soldies, 
weals  in  a  sniffbox.  Som's  wholed,  all's  parted.  Weeping  shouldst 
not  thou  be  when  man  falls  but  that  divine  scheming  ever  adoring 
be.  So  you  be  either  man  or  mouse  and  you  be  neither  fish  nor 
flesh.  Take.  And  take.  Vellicate  nyche !  Be  ones  as  wes  for  gives  for 
gives  now  the  hour  of  passings  sembles  quick  with  quelled.  Adieu, 
soft  adieu,  for  these  nice  presents,  kerryjevin.  Still  tosorrow! 

563 


Jeminy,  what  is  the  view  which  now  takes  up  a  second  posi- 
tion of  discordance,  tell  it  please?  Mark!  You  notice  it  in  that 
rereway  because  the  male  entail  partially  eclipses  the  femecovert. 
It  is  so  called  for  its  discord  the  meseedo.  Do  you  ever  heard  the 
story  about  Helius  Croesus,  that  white  and  gold  elephant  in  our 
zoopark?  You  astonish  me  by  it.  Is  it  not  that  we  are  command- 
ing from  fullback,  woman  permitting,  a  profusely  fine  birdseye 
view  from  beauhind  this  park?  Finn  his  park  has  been  much  the 
admiration  of  all  the  stranger  ones,  grekish  and  romanos,  who 
arrive  to  here.  The  straight  road  down  the  centre  (see  relief  map) 
bisexes  the  park  which  is  said  to  be  the  largest  of  his  kind  in  the 
world.  On  the  right  prominence  confronts  you  the  handsome 
vinesregent's  lodge  while,  turning  to  the  other  supreme  piece  of 
cheeks,  exactly  opposite,  you  are  confounded  by  the  equally  hand- 
some chief  sacristary's  residence.  Around  is  a  little  amiably  tufted 
and  man  is  cheered  when  he  bewonders  through  the  boskage 
how  the  nature  in  all  frisko  is  enlivened  by  gentlemen's  seats. 
Here  are  heavysuppers  —  'tis  for  daddies  housings  for  hun- 
dredaires  of  our  super  thin  thousand.  By  gum,  but  you  have 
resin!  Of  these  tallworts  are  yielded  out  juices  for  jointoils  and 
pappasses  for  paynims.  Listeneth!  'Tis  a  tree  story.  How  olave, 
that  firile,  was  aplantad  in  her  liveside.  How  tannoboom  held 
tonobloom.  How  rood  in  norlandes.  The  black  and  blue  marks 
athwart  the  weald,  which  now  barely  is  so  stripped,  indicate  the 
presence  of  sylvious  beltings.  Therewithal  shady  rides  lend 
themselves  out  to  rustic  cavalries.  In  yonder  valley,  too, 
stays  mountain  sprite.  Any  pretty  dears  are  to  be  caught  inside 
but  it  is  a  bad  pities  of  the  plain.  A  scarlet  pimparnell  now 
mules  the  mound  where  anciently  first  murders  were  wanted 
to  take  root.  By  feud  fionghalian.  Talkingtree  and  sinningstone 
stay  on  either  hand.  Hystorical  leavesdroppings  may  also  be  gar- 
nered up  with  sir  Shamus  Swiftpatrick,  Archfieldchaplain  of  Saint 
Lucan's.  How  familiar  it  is  to  see  all  these  interesting  advenements 
with  one  snaked's  eyes!  Is  all?  Yet  not!  Hear  one's.  At  the  bodom 
fundus  of  this  royal  park,  which,  with  tvigate  shyasian  gardeenen, 
is  open  to  the  public  till  night  at  late,  so  well  the  sissastrides  so  will 

564 


L 


the  pederestians,  do  not  fail  to  point  to  yourself  a  depression 
called  HoU  Hollow.  It  is  often  quite  guttergloomering  in  our 
duol  and  gives  wankyrious  thoughts  to  the  head  but  the  banders 
of  the  pen  tap  oli  tan  poleetsfurcers  bassoons  into  it  on  windy 
woodensdays  their  wellbooming  wolvertones.  Ulvos!  Ulvos! 

Whervolk  dorst  ttou  begin  to  tremble  by  our  moving  pictures 
at  this  moment  when  I  am  to  place  my  hand  of  our  true  friend- 
shapes  upon  thee  knee  to  mark  well  what  I  say?  Throu  shayest 
who?  In  Amsterdam  there  lived  a . . .  But  how?  You  are  trem- 
blotting,  you  retchad,  like  a  verry  jerry!  Niet?  Will  you  a  gui- 
